BANKS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ACT
1991 (AS AMENDED IN 1997, 1998, 1999 AND 2002)
PREAMBLE
Noting that Section 2 of the Revised Edition (Laws of the Federation of Nigeria) Act,
2007 preserves the validity and applicability of any existing statute notwithstanding
any inadvertent omissions, alterations and amendments of such a statute in the Laws
of the Federation of Nigeria (LFN), 2004 and LFN 2010;
Having observed the existence of certain inadvertent omissions, alterations and
amendments in the Banks and Other Financial Institutions (BOFI) Act, Cap B3, LFN,
2004 especially as a result of the erroneous consideration of the repealed BOFI
(Amendment) Act No. 4, 1997 as an extant law during the compilation of the LFN,
2004 and LFN 2010;
Recognising the need to render the BOFI Act in an accurate and readable text shorn
of any inadvertent omissions, alterations and amendments contained in the LFN, 2004
and LFN 2010;
The BOFI Act is hereby reproduced.
Attached as appendixes to this compilation is a compendium of errors and omissions
corrected in the Banks and Other Financial Institutions (BOFI) Act, LFN, 2004, CAP. B3.
1
REVISED EDITION (LAWS OF THE FEDERATION OF NIGERIA) ACT,
2007
AN ACT TO ENABLE EFFECT TO BE GIVEN TO THE REVISED EDITION OF
THE LAWS OF THE FEDERATION OF NIGERIA
25thMay, 2007
ENACTED by the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
The Laws of the Federation of Nigeria compiled and published in 2004 under the
authority of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice are
hereby approved by the National Assembly
Any inadvertent omission, alteration or amendment of any existing statute will
not affect the validity and applicability of the statute.
The Revised Edition (Laws of the Federation of Nigeria) Act 1990 is repealed.
In this Act –
“existing statutes” means any enactment, subsidiary instrument, legislation in
force before the giving of effect to the provisions of this Act.
This Act may be cited as the Revised Edition (Laws of the Federation of Nigeria)
Act, 2007.
EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM
This Act gives effect to the revised Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 made
under the authority of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice.
2
BANKS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ACT, 1991 (AS AMENDED)
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
PART I
Banks
Establishment of Banks, etc.
SECTION
1. Functions, powers and duties of the Central Bank of Nigeria
2. Banking business
3. Application for grant of licence.
4. Investment and release of prescribed minimum paid-up share capital.
5. Power to revoke or vary conditions of licence.
6. Opening and closing of branches.
7. Restructuring, re-organisation, merger and disposal, etc. of banks.
8. Operations of foreign banks in Nigeria.
9. Minimum paid-up share capital of banks and compliance with minimum
paid-up share capital requirement.
10. Shareholder’s voting right to be proportional to shareholding.
11. Restriction of legal proceedings in respect of shares held in the name of
another.
12. Revocation of licence.
13. Minimum capital ratio.
14. Non-compliance with capital ratio requirement.
15. Minimum holding of cash reserves, specified liquid assets, special deposits
and stabilisation securities.
Duties of Banks
16. Maintenance of reserve fund.
17. Restriction on dividend.
18. Disclosure of interest by directors, managers and officers.
19. Prohibition of employment of certain persons and inter-locking directorship, etc
3
SECTION
20. Restrictions on certain banking activities.
21. Acquisition of shares in small and medium-scale industries, agricultural
enterprises and venture capital companies.
22. Restrictions on operation of merchant banks.
23. Display of interests rates.
Books and Records of Account
24. Proper books of account.
25. Returns by banks.
26. Publication of consolidated statements.
27. Publication of annual accounts of banks.
28. Contents and form of accounts.
29. Appointment, power and report of approved auditor.
30. Relationship with specialised banks and finance houses
Supervision
31. Appointment and power of Director of Banking Supervision and other
examiners.
32. Routine examination and report thereon.
33. Special examination.
34. Power to examine books of other financial institutions and specialised banks.
35. Failing bank.
36. Control of failing bank.
37. Power over significantly under-capitalised banks.
38. Management of failing bank.
39. Power of the Bank to revoke licence or apply to court
40. Application to the Federal High Court for winding up.
41. Legal proceedings, etc.
42. Corporation to forward returns.
4
General and Supplemental
SECTION
43. Restrictions on the use of certain names.
44. General restriction on advertisement for deposits.
45. Power of the President to proscribe trade union.
46. Closure of bank during a strike.
47. Prohibition of the receipt of commissions, etc. by staff of banks.
48. Disqualification and exclusion of certain individuals from management of
banks.
Miscellaneous Matters
49. Offences by companies, etc., and by servants and agents.
50. Offences by directors and managers of banks.
51. Penalties for offences not otherwise provided for.
52. Sharing of revenues from penalties
53. Protection against adverse claims
54. Priority of local deposit liabilities
55. Application of Companies and Allied Matters Act Cap. C20.
56. Application of Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act Cap. N102.
57. Power to make regulations.
PART II
Other Financial Institutions
58. Prohibition of unlicensed financial institutions.
59. Application for licence.
60. Failure to comply with conditions of licence.
61. Supervisory power of the Bank.
62. Control of failing other financial institutions.
63. Application of Act to other financial institutions
5
PART III
Miscellaneous and Supplementary
SECTION
64. Failure to comply with rules, etc.
65. Powers as to offences and the Attorney-General’s fiat.
66. Interpretation.
67. Short title.
6
BANKS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ACT 1991 (AS AMENDED)
An Act to regulate banking and other financial institutions and for matters
connected therewith
[1991 No. 25]
[Date of commencement: 20thJune, 1991]
PART 1
Banks
Establishment of Banks, etc.
1. Functions, powers and duties of the Central Bank of Nigeria
(l) The Central Bank of Nigeria (hereinafter in this Act referred to as “the
Bank”) shall have all the functions and powers conferred and the duties
imposed on it by this Act.
[No 38 of 1998]
(2) The Bank shall in addition to the functions and powers conferred on it by
this Act, have the functions and powers conferred and the duties imposed
on the Bank by the Central Bank of Nigeria Act.
[No. 38 of 1998]
(3) The Bank may authorise or instruct any officer or employee of the Bank to
perform any of the functions, exercise any powers, or discharge any of its
duties under this Act.
(4) The Bank may, either generally or in any particular case, appoint any
person who is not an officer or employee of the Bank, to render such
assistance as it may specify in the exercise of its powers, the performance
of its functions, or the discharge of its duties under this Act, or to exercise,
perform or discharge the functions and duties on behalf of and in the name
of the Bank.
(5) For the purposes of this Act, a person shall be deemed to be receiving
money as deposits­
(a) if the person accepts deposits from the general public as a feature of
7
its business or if it issues an advertisement or solicits for such
deposit;
(b) notwithstanding that it receives money as deposits which are limited
to fixed amounts or that certificates or other instruments are issued in
respect of any such amounts providing for the repayment to the
holder thereof either conditionally or unconditionally of the amount
of the deposits at specified or unspecified dates or for the payment of
interest or dividend on the amounts deposited at specified intervals or
otherwise, or that such certificates are transferable.
(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section to the contrary, the
receiving of moneys against any issue of shares and debentures offered to
the public in accordance with any enactment in force within the Federation
shall not be deemed to constitute receiving money as deposits for the
purposes of this Act.
2. Banking business
(I) No person shall carry on any banking business in Nigeria except it is a
company duly incorporated in Nigeria and holds a valid banking licence
issued under this Act.
(2) Any person who transacts banking business without a valid licence under
this Act is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 10 years or to a fine of N2,000,000 or to both
such imprisonment and fine.
[No 38 of 1998]
3. Application for grant of licence
(1) Any person desiring to undertake banking business in Nigeria shall apply
in writing to the Governor for the grant of a licence and shall accompany
the application with the following:-
(a) a feasibility report of the proposed bank;
(b) a draft copy of the memorandum and articles of association of the
8
proposed bank;
(c) a list of the shareholders, directors and principal officers of the
proposed bank and their particulars;
(d) the prescribed application fee; and
(e) such other information, documents and reports as the Bank may,
from time to time, specify.
(2) After the applicant has provided all such information, documents and
reports as the Bank may require under subsection (1) of this section, the
shareholders of the proposed bank shall deposit with the Bank a sum equal
to the minimum paid-up share capital that may be applicable under section
9 of this Act.
(3) Upon the payment of the sum referred to in subsection (2) of this section,
the Governor may issue a licence with or without conditions or refuse to
issue a licence, and the Governor need not give any reasons for the refusal.
(4) Where an application for a licence is granted, the Bank shall give written
notice of that fact to the applicant and the licence fee shall be paid.
4. Investment and release of prescribed minimum paid-up share capital
The Bank may invest any amount deposited with it pursuant to section 3(2) of
this Act in treasury bills or such other securities until such a time as the
Governor shall decide whether or not to grant a licence, and where the licence is
not granted, the Bank shall repay the sum deposited to the applicant, together
with the investment income after deducting administrative expenses and tax on
the income.
5. Power to revoke or vary conditions of licence
(1) The Bank may vary or revoke any condition subject to which a licence was
granted or may impose fresh or additional conditions to the grant of a
licence.
[No 38 of 1998]
(2) Where the grant of a licence is subject to conditions, the bank shall comply
9
with those conditions to the satisfaction of the Bank within such period as
the Bank may deem appropriate in the circumstances.
(3) Any bank which fails to comply with any of the conditions of its licence is
guilty of an offence under this section and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding N50,000 for each day during which the condition is not
complied with.
[No 38 of 1998]
(4) Where the Governor proposes to vary, revoke or impose fresh or
additional conditions on a licence, he shall, before exercising such power,
give notice of his intention to the bank concerned and give the bank an
opportunity to make representation to him thereon.
(5) Any bank which fails to comply with any fresh or additional condition
imposed in relation to its licence is guilty of an offence and liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding N500,000 and to an additional fine of
N5,000 for each day during which the offence continues.
[No 38 of 1998]
6. Opening and closing of branches
(1) No bank may open or close any branch office anywhere within or outside
Nigeria except with the prior consent in writing of the Bank.
(2) Any bank which contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) of this
section is guilty of an offence and liable to a fine not exceeding
N2,000,000 and the closure in case of the opening of a branch office and
the reopening in the case of a closure of a branch office and in addition to
a fine of N100,000 for each day during which the offence continues.
[No 38 of 1998]
7. Restructuring, re-organisation, mergers and disposal etc. of banks
(1) Except with the prior consent of the Governor, no bank shall enter into an
agreement or arrangement-
(a) which results in a change in the control of the bank;
10
(b) for the sale, disposal or transfer howsoever, of the whole or any part
of the business of the bank;
(c) for the amalgamation or merger of the bank with any other person;
(d) for the reconstruction of the bank;
(e) to employ a management agent or to transfer its business to any such
agent.
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) of this
section is guilty of an offence and liable to a fine not exceeding
N1,000,000 and in the case of a continuing offence to an additional fine of
N10,000 for each day during which the offence continues.
[No 38 of 1998]
8. Operation of foreign banks in Nigeria
(1) Except with the prior approval of the Bank, no foreign bank shall operate
branch offices or representative offices in Nigeria.
[No 38 of 1998]
(2) The Bank may, subject to such conditions as it may impose, from time to
time, grant to any bank registered in Nigeria or a foreign bank a licence to
undertake offshore banking business from Nigeria.
[No 38 of 1998]
(3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (l) of this section, nothing in the
provisions of the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission Act 1995
or any other law or enactment shall be construed as authorising any person
whether as a citizen of Nigeria or a non-Nigerian to carry on any banking
business in Nigeria without a valid banking licence issued by the Bank
under this Act.
[No 38 of 1998]
(4) Any person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) or (3) of this
section is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding N1,000,000 and in the case of a continuing offence to an
11
additional fine of N10,000 for each day during which the offence
continues.
[No 38 of 1998]
9. Minimum paid-up share capital of banks and compliance with minimum
paid-up share capital requirement
(1) The Bank shall, from time to time, determine the minimum paid-up share
capital requirement of each category of banks licensed under this Act.
(2) Any failure to comply with the provisions of this section of this Act within
such period as may be determined by the Bank, from time to time, shall be
a ground for the revocation of any licence issued pursuant to the
provisions of this Act or any other Act repealed by it.
[No 38 of 1998]
10. Shareholder’s voting rights to be proportional to shareholding
Notwithstanding the provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act,
1990 or any agreement or contract, the voting rights of every shareholder in a
bank shall be proportional to his contribution to the paid-up share capital of the
bank.
[Cap. C20, LFN 2010]
11. Restriction of legal proceedings in respect of shares held in the name of
another
Notwithstanding anything contained in any law or in any contract or instrument,
no suit or other proceeding shall be maintained against any person registered as
the holder of a share in a bank on the ground that the title to the said share vested
in any person other than the registered holder:
Provided that nothing in this section shall bar a suit or other proceeding on
behalf of a minor or person suffering from any mental illness on the ground that
the registered holder holds the share on behalf of the minor or person suffering
from the mental illness.
12
12. Revocation of licence
(1) The Governor may, with the approval of the Board of Directors and by
notice published in the Gazette, revoke any licence granted under this Act
if a bank­
(a) ceases to carry on in Nigeria the type of banking business for which
the licence was issued for any continuous period of 6 months or any
period aggregating 6 months during a continuous period of 12
months;
(b) goes into liquidation or is wound-up or otherwise dissolved;
(c) fails to fulfil or comply with any condition subject to which the
licence was granted;
(d) has insufficient assets to meet its liabilities;
(e) fails to comply with any obligation imposed upon it by or under this
Act or the Central Bank of Nigeria Act.
[Cap. C4, LFN 2010]
13. Minimum capital ratio
(1) A bank shall maintain, at all times, capital funds unimpaired by losses, in
such ratio, to all or any assets or to all or any liabilities or to both such
assets and liabilities of the bank and all its offices in and outside Nigeria as
may be specified by the Bank.
(2) Any bank which fails to observe any such specified ratios may be
prohibited by the Bank from­
(a) advertising for or accepting new deposits;
(b) granting credit and making investment;
(c) paying cash dividend to shareholders.
(3) In addition, the bank may be required to draw up within a specified time a
capital reconstitution plan acceptable to the Bank.
14. Non-compliance with capital ratio requirement
(1) Failure to comply with the provisions of section 13 of this Act may
13
constitute a ground for the revocation of the licence of the bank under this
Act.
(2) Where the Bank proposes to revoke the licence of any bank pursuant to
subsection (1) of this section, the Bank shall give notice of its intention to
the bank and the bank may within 30 days make representation (if any) to
the Bank in respect thereof.
[No 40 of 1999]
15. Minimum holding of cash reserves, specified liquid assets, special deposit
and stabilisation securities
(1) Every bank shall maintain with the Bank cash reserves, and special
deposits and hold specified liquid assets or stabilisation securities, as the
case may be, not less in amount than as may, from time to time, be
prescribed by the Bank by virtue of section 40 of the Central Bank of
Nigeria Act.
[Cap. C4, LFN 2010]
(2) Where both assets and liabilities are due from and to other banks, they
shall be offset accordingly, and any surplus of assets or liabilities shall be
included or deducted, as the case may be, in computing specified liquid
assets.
(3) In the case of the long-term advances to a bank or by an overseas branch or
office of a bank, the advances may, with the approval of the Bank, be
excluded from the demand liabilities of the bank.
(4) Every bank shall -
(a) furnish within a reasonable time any information required by the
Bank to satisfy the Bank that the bank is observing the requirements
of subsection (1) of this section;
(b) not allow its holding of cash reserves, specified liquid assets, special
deposits and stabilisation securities to be less than the amount which
may, from time to time, be prescribed by the Bank;
14
(c) not during the period of any deficiency, grant or permit increases in
advances, loans or credit facilities to any person without the prior
approval in writing of the Bank.
(5) Any bank which fails to comply with any of the provisions of subsection
(4) of this section is guilty of an offence and liable to a fine of­
(a) in the case of paragraph (a) N500,000 for every month during which
a default under that paragraph (a) exists;
[No 40 1999]
(b) in the case of paragraph (b) N500,000 for each month of the
offence;
[No 38 1998]
(c) in the case of paragraph (c) N500,000 for each month of the offence,
and the Bank may also, during the period when the bank fails to
comply with any of the requirements of subsection (4) as aforesaid,
withdraw any privileges or facilities that are normally accorded to
the bank.
[No 38 1998]
(6) For the purposes of this section, specified liquid assets provided they are
freely transferable and free from any lien or charge of any kind shall,
without prejudice to the provisions of section 40 of the Central Bank of
Nigeria Act 1991, consist of all or any of the following, that is­
(a) currency notes and coins which are legal tender in Nigeria;
(b) balances at the Bank;
(c) net balances at any licensed bank (excluding un-cleared effects)
and money at call in Nigeria;
(d) Treasury Bills and Treasury Certificates issued by the Federal
Government;
(e) inland bills of exchange and promissory notes rediscountable at the
Bank;
15
(f) stocks issued by the Federal Government with such dates of maturity
as may be approved by the Bank;
(g) negotiable certificates of deposit approved by the Bank; and
(h) such other negotiable instruments as may, from time to time, be
approved by the Bank for the purpose of this subsection.
Duties of Banks
16. Maintenance of reserve fund
(1) Every bank shall maintain a reserve fund and shall, out of its net profits
for each year (after due provision made for taxation) and before any
dividend is declared, where the amount of the reserve funds is­
(a) less than the paid-up share capital, transfer to the reserve fund a sum
equal to not less than thirty per cent of the net profits; or
(b) equal to or in excess of the paid-up share Capital, transfer to the
reserve fund a sum equal to not less than fifteen per cent of the net
profit:
Provided that no transfer under this subsection shall be made until all
identifiable losses have been made good.
(2) Any bank which fails to comply with the provisions of subsection (1) of
this section is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of
N500,000.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (1) of this section,
the Bank may, from time to time, specify a different proportion of the net
profits of each year, being either lesser or greater than the proportion
specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) to be transferred to the reserve fund of a
bank for the purpose of ensuring that the amount of the reserve fund of
such bank is sufficient for the purpose of its business and adequate in
relation to its liabilities.
17. Restriction on dividend
(1) No bank shall pay dividend on its shares until­
16
(a) all its preliminary expenses, organizational expenses, shares selling
commission, brokerage, amount of losses incurred and other
capitalised ex­penses not represented by tangible assets have been
completely written off;
(b) adequate provisions have been made to the satisfaction of the Bank
for actual and contingent losses on risk assets, liabilities, off balance
sheet commit­ments and such unearned incomes as are derivable
therefrom;
(c) it has complied with any capital ratio requirement as specified by the
Bank pursuant to section 13(1) of this Act.
(2) Any director, manager or officer who fails to comply with the
requirements, of this section of this Act is guilty of an offence and liable
on conviction to a fine of 5 per cent of the dividend paid or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
[No 38 of 1998]
18. Disclosure of interest by directors, managers and officers
(1) No manager or any other officer of a bank shall­
(a) in any manner whatsoever, whether directly or indirectly have
personal interest in any advance, loan or credit facility; and if he has
any such personal interest, he shall declare the nature of his interest
to the bank;
(b) grant any advance, loan or credit facility to any person, unless it is
authorised in accordance with the rules and regulations of the bank;
and where adequate security is required by such rules and
regulations, such security shall, prior to the grant, be obtained for the
advance, loan or credit facility and shall be deposited with the bank;
(c) benefit as a result of any advance, loan or credit facility granted by
the bank.
17
(2) Any manager or officer who contravenes or fails to comply with any of the
provisions of subsection (1) of this section is guilty of an offence under
this section and liable on conviction to a fine of NI00,000 or to
imprisonment for a term of 3 years; and in addition, any gains or benefits,
accruing to any person convicted under this section by reason of such
contravention, shall be forfeited to the Federal Government, and the gains
or benefit shall vest accordingly in that Government.
(3) It shall be the duty of a director of a bank who is in any way, whether
directly or indirectly, interested in the grant of an advance, loan or credit
facility with the bank, to declare the nature of his interest at a meeting of
the board of directors of the bank.
(4) In the case of a proposed advance, loan or credit facility, the declaration
required by this section of this Act shall be made at the meeting of the
board of directors of the bank at which the request for the advance, loan or
credit facility is first taken into consideration or if the director was not
present on the date of the meeting at which the matter was discussed he
shall state his interest in the proposed advance, loan or credit facility at the
next meeting of the board of directors of the bank held after he becomes so
interested, and in a case where the director becomes interested in any
advance, loan or credit facility after it is granted, the declaration shall be
made at the first meeting of the board of directors of the bank held after he
becomes so interested.
(5) For the purpose of this section of this Act, a general notice given to the
board of directors of a bank by a director to the effect that he is a member
of a company or firm seeking an advance, loan or credit facility for the
bank shall be regarded as a declaration of his interest in the grant of the
advance, loan or credit facility which may after the date of the notice, be
granted to that company or firm, and shall be deemed to be a sufficient
declaration of interest in relation to any such advance, loan or credit
18
facility so granted:
Provided that any such notice shall not have effect unless it is given at a
meeting of the board of directors of the bank which shall be required to do
all things reasonably necessary to ensure that it is brought up and read at
the next meeting of the board of directors of the bank after it is so given.
(6) The provisions of subsection (3) of this section shall not apply in any case­
(a) where the interest of the director consists only of being a person
holding less than 5 per cent of the shares of the company which is
seeking an advance, loan or credit facility from the bank; or
(b) if the interest of the director may properly be regarded by the Bank as
immaterial.
(7) For the purpose of subsection (5) of this section, a general notice given to
the board of directors of a bank by a director shall be deemed to be a
sufficient declaration of interest in relation to any advance, loan or credit
facility, if-
(a) the notice specifies the nature and extent of his interest in the
company or firm;
(b) such interest is not different in nature to or greater in extent than the
nature and extent specified in the notice at the time any advance, loan
or credit facility is made; and
(c) the notice is given at the meeting of the board of directors of the
bank or the director takes reasonable steps to ensure that it is brought
up and read at the next meeting of the board of directors of the bank
after it is given.
(8) Every director of a bank who holds any office or possesses any property
whereby, whether directly or indirectly, duties or interests might be
created in conflict with his duties or interests as a director of a bank, shall
declare at a meeting of the board of directors of the bank, the fact and the
nature, character and extent of the interest.
19
(9) The declaration referred to in subsection (8) of this section shall be
required to be made at the first meeting of the board of directors of the
bank held -
(a) after he becomes a director of the bank; or
(b) if already a director, after he came into possession of the property.
(10) The secretary of the bank shall cause to be brought up and read any
declaration made under subsection (3) or (8) of this section at the next
meeting of the board of directors of the bank after it is made and shall
record any declaration made under this section of this Act in the minutes
of the meeting at which it was made or at the meeting at which it was
brought up and read.
(11) Any director who contravenes the provisions of subsection (3) or (8) of
this section is guilty of an offence liable on conviction to a fine of
NI00,000 or imprisonment for a term of 3 years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
[No 38 of 1998]
19. Prohibition of employment of certain persons and interlocking
directorship
(1) No bank shall­
(a) employ or continue the employment of any person who is or at any
time has been adjudged bankrupt or has suspended payment to or has
compounded with his creditors or who is or has been convicted by a
court for an offence involving fraud or dishonesty, or professional
misconduct;
(b) be managed by a management agent except as may be approved by
the Bank.
(2) Except with the approval of the Bank, no bank shall have as a director any
person who is a director of­
(a) any other bank;
20
(b) companies which among themselves are entitled to exercise voting
rights in excess of ten per cent of the total voting rights of all the
shareholders of the bank.
(3) No bank shall be managed by a person who is­
(a) a director of any other company not being a subsidiary of the bank; or
(b) engaged in any other business or vocation.
(4) Every director of a bank shall sign a code of conduct in such form or
manner as the Bank may, from time to time, prescribe.
(5) The chief executive of a bank shall cause all the officers of the bank to
sign a code of conduct as may be approved by the board of directors.
20. Restriction on certain banking activities
(1) A bank shall not, without the prior approval in writing of the Bank, grant -
(a) to any person, any advance, loan or credit facility or give any financial
guarantee or incur any other liability on behalf of any person so that the
total value of the advance, loan, credit facility, financial guarantee or any
other liability in respect of the person is at any time more than twenty per
cent of the shareholders fund unimpaired by losses or in the case of a
merchant bank, not more than fifty per cent of its shareholders fund
unimpaired by losses; and for the purpose of this paragraph, all
advances, loans or credit facilities extended to any person shall be
aggregated and shall include all advances, loans or credit facilities
extended to any subsidiaries or associates of a body corporate:
Provided that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to
transactions between banks or between branches of a bank or to the
purchase of clean or documentary bills of exchange, telegraphic
transfers or documents of title to goods, the holder of which is entitled to
payment for exports from Nigeria or to advance made against such bills,
transfers or documents;
(b) any advances, loans or credit facilities against the security of its own
21
shares or any unsecured advances, loans or credit facilities, unless
authorised in accordance with the bank’s rules and regulations and
where any such rules and regulations require adequate security, such
security shall be provided or, as the case may require, deposited with the
bank.
(2) A bank shall not, without the prior approval in writing of the Bank­
(a) permit to be outstanding, unsecured advances, loans or unsecured
credit facilities, of an aggregate amount in excess of N50,000.
[No 40 of 1999]
(i) to its directors or any of them whether such advances,
loans or credit facilities are obtained by its directors
jointly or severally;
(ii) (ii) to any firm, partnership or private company in
which it or anyone or one or more of its directors is
interested as director, partner, manager or agent or any
individual firm, partnership or private company of
which any of its directors is a guarantor;
(iii) (iii) to any public company or private company in
which it or anyone or more of its directors jointly or
severally maintains shareholding of not less than five
per cent either directly or indirectly;
(b) permit to be outstanding to its officers and employees, unsecured
advances, loans or unsecured credit facilities, which in the aggregate
for any one officer or employee, is an amount which exceed one year’s
emolument to such officer or employee;
(c) engage, whether on its own account or on a commission basis, in
wholesale or retail trade, including the import or export trade, except in
so far as may exceptionally be necessary in the course of the banking
operations and services of that bank or in the course of the satisfaction of
22
debts due to it; so however that nothing in this paragraph shall be
construed as precluding a bank from undertaking equipment leasing
business or debt factoring, provided that the foregoing provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply to a bank in the circumstances permitted under
section 21 of this Act;
(d) without prejudice to the provisions of section 21 of this Act, acquire or
hold any part of the share capital of any financial or commercial or other
undertaking, except­
(i) any shareholding approved by the Bank in any company set up for
the purpose of promoting the development of the money market or
capital market in Nigeria or of improving the financial machinery for
financing economic development;
(ii) any shareholding approved by the Bank pursuant to sub-paragraph
(i) of this paragraph, the aggregate value of which does not at any
time exceed twenty ­five per cent of the sum of paid-up share capital
and statutory reserves of that bank;
(iii) all shareholding acquired by a merchant bank while managing
an equity issue:
Provided that the aggregate value of such acquisition does not at any
time exceed the sum of the paid-up share capital of that merchant bank
or ten per cent of its total assets, excluding contract items, whichever is
higher and that this paragraph shall not apply to any nominee company
of a bank which deals in stock and shares for or on behalf of the bank’s
customers or clients or majority interest acquired by a merchant bank in
a company while managing an equity issue.
(e) remit, either in whole or in part, the debts owed to it by any of its
directors or past directors;
(f) purchase, sell, dispose, acquire or lease any real estate for whatever
purpose.
23
[No 38 of 1998]
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, a bank may
secure debt on any real or other property, and in default of repayment, may
acquire such property and exercise any power of sale, as may be provided
for in any instrument or, by law prescribed, immediately upon such default
or soon thereafter as may be deemed proper.
(4) In subsection (2) (a) and (b) of this section, the expressions “unsecured
advances and loans” or “unsecured credit facilities”, mean advances,
loans or credit facilities made without security, or, in respect of any
advances, loans or credit facilities made with security, any part thereof
which at any time exceeds the market value of the assets constituting the
security or where the bank is satisfied that there is no established market
value, the value of the assets as determined on the basis of a valuation
approved by the bank.
(5) In paragraph (a) and (e) of subsection (2) of this section, the expression
“director”, includes director’s wife, husband, father, mother, brother,
sister, son, daughter and their spouses.
(6) All the directors of a bank shall be liable jointly and severally to
indemnify the bank against any loss arising from any unsecured advances,
loans or credit facilities under paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of this
section.
(7) Any director, manager or officer who fails to comply with the
requirements of this section of this Act is guilty of an offence and liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding N100,000 or to imprisonment for a term
of 3 years and shall in addition be required to repay the loan or forfeit his
known assets in lieu of the unpaid loan.
[No 38 of 1998]
(8) Any bank which after the commencement of this Act, enters into any
transaction which is inconsistent with the requirement of subsection (7) of
24
this section is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of
N1,000,000.
[No 38 of 1998]
21. Acquisition of shares in small and medium scale industries; agricultural
enterprises and venture capital companies
(1) A bank may acquire or hold part of the share capital of any agricultural,
industrial or venture capital company subject to the following conditions,
that is­
(a) the venture capital company is set up for the purpose of promoting
the development of indigenous technology or a new venture in
Nigeria;
(b) the shareholding by the bank is in small or medium-scale industries
and agricultural enterprises as defined by the Bank;
(c) the shareholding by the bank in any medium scale industry,
agricultural enterprise or venture capital company or any other
business approved by the Bank shall not be more than ten per cent of
the bank’s shareholders fund unimpaired by losses and shall not
exceed forty per cent of the paid-up share capital of the company, the
shares of which are acquired or held;
(d) the aggregate value of the equity participation of the bank in all
enterprises pursuant to this section does not, at any time, exceed in
the case of a commercial bank, twenty per cent of its shareholders
fund unimpaired by losses or in the case of a merchant bank, not
more than fifty per cent of its shareholders fund unimpaired by
losses:
Provided that a bank may hold shares acquired in the course of
the satisfaction of any debt owed to it.
(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of subsection (1) of this section, a
bank may hold or acquire share capital of any other business, subject to the
25
approval of the Bank.
(3) Every bank shall, within 21 days of the acquisition of any shareholding
pursuant to subsection (1) of this section, give full particulars thereof to
the Bank.
(4) Any bank which fails to comply with the provisions of subsection (3) of
this section is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of
N1,000 for each day during which the offence continues.
[No 40 of 1999]
22. Restriction on operations of merchant banks
(1) A merchant bank shall not­
(a) accept any deposit withdrawable by cheque;
(b) accept any deposit below an amount which shall be prescribed, from
time to time, by the Bank;
(c) hold for more than six months any equity interest acquired in a
company while managing an equity issue except as stipulated in
section 21 of this Act.
(2) Any merchant bank which acts in contravention of or fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section is guilty of an offence and liable to a
fine not exceeding N25,000 for each day during which the offence
continues.
[No 38 of 1998]
23. Display of interest rates
(1) Every bank shall display at its offices its lending and deposit interest rates and
shall render to the Bank information on such rates as may be specified,
from time to time, by the Bank:
Provided that the provisions of this subsection shall not apply to profit
and loss sharing banks.
(2) Any bank in breach of any of the provisions of this section is guilty of an
offence and liable to a fine not exceeding N5,000 for every day during
26
which the offence continues.
[No 38 of 1998]
Books of Account
24. Proper books of account
(1) Every bank shall cause to be kept proper books of account with respect to
all the transactions of the bank.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1) of this section, proper books of account
shall be deemed to be kept with respect to all transactions if such books as
are necessary to explain such transactions and give a true and fair view of
the state of affairs of a bank are kept by the bank and are in compliance
with the accounting standard as may be prescribed for banks.
(3) The books of account shall be kept at the principal administrative office of
a bank and at the branches of each bank in the English language or any
other language approved by the Federal Government.
(4) Where the books of account kept by a bank with respect to all its
transactions are prepared and kept in such a manner that, in the opinion of
the Bank, have not been properly prepared and kept, or where a bank
renders return in accordance with the provisions of section 25 of this Act,
which in the opinion of the Bank are inaccurate, the Bank may appoint a
firm of qualified accountants to prepare proper books of account or render
accurate returns, as the case may be, for the bank and the cost of preparing
the accounts and rendering the returns shall be borne by the bank.
(5) If any person being a director, manager or officer of a bank­
(a) fails to take all reasonable steps to secure compliance with any of the
provisions of this section;
(b) has by his wilful act been the cause of any default thereof by the
bank, he is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction, in respect of
paragraph (a) of this subsection, to a fine of N10,000 and in respect
of paragraph (b) of this section, to a fine of N50,000.
27
[No 40 of 1999]
25. Returns by banks
(1) Every bank shall submit to the Bank not later than 28 days after the last day of
each month or such other interval as the Bank may specify, a statement showing­
(a) the assets and liabilities of the bank; and
(b) an analysis of advances and other assets, at its head office and
branches in and outside Nigeria in such form as the Bank may
specify, from time to time.
(2) Every bank shall submit such other information, documents, statistics or
returns as the Bank may deem necessary for the proper understanding of
the statements supplied under subsection (1) of this section.
(3) Any bank which fails to comply with any of the requirements of
subsection (1) or (2) of this section is, in respect of each such failure,
guilty of an offence and liable to a fine not exceeding N25,000 for each
day during which the offence continues
[No 38 of 1998]
26. Publication of consolidated statements
(1) The statements and information submitted by each bank under section 25
of this Act shall be regarded as confidential:
Provided that the Bank shall furnish any such statement or information to
any agency of Government as required by law.
(2) Notwithstanding anything in this section, the Bank may prepare and
publish consolidated statements aggregating the statements furnished
under section 25 of this Act for each category of banks.
27. Publication of annual accounts of banks
(1) Subject to the prior approval in writing of the Bank, a bank shall not later than 4
months after the end of its financial year –
(a) cause to be published in a daily newspaper printed in and circulating
in Nigeria and approved by the Bank;
28
(b) exhibit in a conspicuous position in each of its offices and branches
in Nigeria; and
(c) forward to the Bank, copies of the bank’s balance sheet and profit
and loss account duly signed and containing the full and correct
names of the directors of the bank.
(2) Every published account of a bank, under subsection (1) of this section,
shall disclose in detail penalties paid as a result of contravention of the
provisions of this Act and provisions of any policy guidelines in force
during the financial year in question and the auditor’s report shall reflect
such contraven­tion.
(3) The balance sheet and profit and loss account of a bank shall bear on their
face the report of an approved auditor and shall contain statements on such
matters as may be specified by the Bank, from time to time.
(4) For the purpose of subsection (3) of this section, an “approved auditor”
shall be an auditor approved for the purpose of section 29 of this Act.
(5) Any bank which fails to comply with any of the requirements of this
section is in respect of each such failure guilty of an offence and liable on
conviction to a fine of N10,000 each day during which the offence
continues.
[No 40 of 1999]
28. Contents and form of accounts
(1) Every balance sheet and every profit and loss account of a bank shall give
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the bank as at the end of the
reporting period.
(2) Every balance sheet and every profit and loss account of a bank forwarded
to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1) of this
section and section 27(1)(c) of this Act shall comply with the requirements
of any circular which has been issued by the Bank thereon.
(3) Any person being a director of any bank who fails to take all reasonable
29
steps to secure compliance with any of the provisions of this section in
respect of any accounts is guilty of an offence and liable to pay to the Bank
a fine of N1,000 or to imprisonment for 5 years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
[No 40 of 1999]
29. Appointment, power and report of approved auditor
(1) Every bank shall appoint annually a person approved by the Bank, in this
section referred to as, “the approved auditor,” whose duties shall be to
make to the shareholders a report upon the annual balance sheet and profit
and loss account of the bank, and every such report shall contain
statements as to the matters and such other information as may be
prescribed, from time to time, by the Bank.
(2) For the purpose of this section, the approved auditor shall be an auditor
who is­
(a) a member of one of the professional bodies recognised in Nigeria;
(b) approved by the Bank;
(c) resident in Nigeria; and
(d) carrying on in Nigeria professional practice as accountant and
auditor.
(3) Any person­
(a) having any interest in a bank otherwise than as a depositor; or
(b) who is a director, officer or agent of a bank; or
(c) which is a firm in which a director of a bank has any interest as
partner or director; or
(d) who is indebted to a bank,
shall not be eligible for appointment as the approved auditor for that bank
(e) and a person appointed as such auditor who subsequently ­
(i) acquires such interest; or
(ii) becomes a director, officer or agent of that bank; or
30
(iii) becomes indebted to a partner in a firm in which a director of a
bank is interested as partner or director,
shall cease to be such auditor.
(4) If any bank -
(a) fails to appoint an approved auditor under subsection (1) of this
section; or
(b) at any time, fails to fill a vacancy for such person, the Bank shall
appoint a suitable person for that purpose and shall fix the
remuneration to be paid by the bank to such auditor.
(5) Every auditor of a bank shall have a right of access at all times to the
books, accounts and vouchers of the bank, and shall be entitled to require
from directors, managers and officers of the bank such information and
explanation as he thinks necessary for the performance of his duties under
this Act.
[Nos 38 of 1998 and 40 of 1999]
(6) The report of the approved auditor shall be read together with the report
of the board of directors at the annual general meeting of the shareholders
of the bank and two copies of each report together with the auditor’s
analysis of bad and doubtful advances in a form specified, from time to
time, by the Bank shall be sent to the Bank.
(7) If an auditor appointed under this section, in the course of his duties as an
auditor of a bank, is satisfied that-
(a) there has been a contravention of this Act, or that an offence under
any other law has been committed by the bank or any other person; or
(b) losses have been incurred by the bank which substantially reduce its
capital funds; or
(c) any irregularity which jeopardises the interest of depositors or
creditors of the bank, or any other irregularity has occurred; or
(d) he is unable to confirm that the claims of depositors or creditors are
31
covered by the assets of the bank, he shall immediately report the
matter to the Bank.
(8) The approved auditor shall forward to the Bank two copies of the
domestic reports on the bank’s activities not later than 3 months after the
end of the bank’s financial year.
(9) Any approved auditor under this section who acts in contravention of or
fails deliberately or negligently to comply with any of the provisions of
this section of this Act is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a
fine of not exceeding N500,000 and where the approved auditor is a firm,
the individual partner or partners shall in addition be liable on conviction
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years and to the fine required
to be paid by the firm under this subsection.
[No 38 of 1998]
(10) The appointment of an approved auditor shall not be determined without
prior approval of the Bank.
Supervision
30. Repealed [No 38 of 1998]
31. Appointment and power of Director of Banking Supervision and other
examiners
` (1) There shall be an officer of the Bank who shall be appointed by the
Governor to be known as the Director of Banking Supervision or by such
other title as the Governor may specify.
(2) The Director of Banking Supervision shall have power to carry out
supervisory duties in respect of banks, other financial institutions and
specialised banks and for that purpose shall­
(a) under conditions of confidentiality, examine periodically the books
and affairs of each bank;
(b) have a right of access at all times to the books, accounts and vouchers
of banks;
32
(c) have power to require from directors, managers and officers of banks
such information and explanation as he deems necessary for the
performance of his duties under this section.
[No 38 of 1998]
(3) the Governor shall appoint to assist the Director of Banking Supervision
such other officers of the Bank as the Governor may from time to time,
decide.
(4) The officers may be designated examiners or have such other titles as the
Governor may specify.
(5) For the purpose of this section, references to examiners are references to
the Director of Banking Supervision and any officer of the Bank appointed
pursuant to subsection (3) of this section.
(6) In examining me affairs of any bank under this Act, it shall be the duty of
an examiner at all times to avoid unreasonable hindrance to the daily
business of the bank.
(7) Every bank shall produce to me examiners at such times as the examiners
may specify, all books, accounts, documents and information which they
may require.
(8) If any book, document or information is not produced in accordance with
the requirement of an examiner under this section or what is produced or
furnished to an examiner is false in any material particular, the bank is
guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a line of N100,000 and in
addition, to a fine of N10,000 for each day during which the offence
continues.
[No 38 of 1998]
32. Routine examination and report thereon
(1) The Governor shall, in the case of routine examination, forward a copy of
the report arising from the examination together with the
recommenda­tions of the Bank, to the bank concerned with instruction
33
that it be placed before the meeting of the board of directors of the bank
specially convened for the purpose of considering the report and the
recommendations thereon.
[No 38 of 1998]
(2) The bank shall within 2 weeks convey to the Governor the board of
directors’ reactions to the report and its proposals for implementing the
recommendations of the Bank.
(3) Any bank which fails to comply with the provisions of subsection (1) or
(2) of this section is guilty of an offence and liable to the Bank for a fine
not exceeding N25,000 for each day during which the offence continues
and if the offence continues for more than 60 days, the Bank may in
addition to the fine withdraw any privilege or facility granted to that bank
by the Bank.
[No 38 of 1998]
33. Special examination
(1) The Governor shall have power to order a special examination or
investigation of the books and affairs of a bank where he is satisfied that­
(a) it is in the public interest so to do; or
(b) the bank has been carrying on its business in a manner detrimental to
the interest of its depositors and creditors; or
(c) the bank has “insufficient” assets to cover its liabilities to the public;
or
(d) the bank has been contravening the provisions of this Act; or
(e) an application is made therefore by­
(i) a director or shareholder of the bank: or
(ii) a depositor or creditor of the bank:
Provided that in the case of paragraph (e) of this subsection, the Governor may
not order a special examination or investigation of the books and affairs of a
bank if he is satisfied that it is not necessary to do so.
34
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1) of this section, the Governor shall have
power to appoint one or more qualified persons other than the officers of
the Bank to conduct special examination or investigation under conditions
of confidentiality, of the books and affairs of the bank.
(3) Nothing in this section or in any other section of this Act shall be
construed as precluding the Governor from appointing one or more
officers of the Bank as examiner apart from those mentioned in section 31
of this Act and ascribing to such officers such other designations as he
deems fit and from directing or requiring all or any of the officers to
exercise all or any of the powers of the Director of Banking Supervision
under this Act.
(4) The Governor shall have power to order that all expenses of or incidental
to an examination or investigation be paid by the bank examined or
investigated.
34. Power to examine books of other financial institutions and specialised banks
(1) Notwithstanding the powers of the Bank specified in this Act, as amended, the
Bank shall have power, from time to time, to examine the books and
affairs of­
(a) the Nigerian Industrial Development Bank;
(b) the Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank;
(c) the Nigerian Export Import Bank;
(d) the Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry;
(e) the Urban Development Bank;
(f) the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria and all primary mortgage
institutions;
(g) Community Banks;
(h) Peoples Bank of Nigeria;
(i) bureaux de change:
(j) discount houses and such other financial institutions and specialised
35
banks as may be specified from time to time by the Bank.
(2) The periodic reports and findings of the Bank in relation to the other
financial institutions and specialised banks together with the
recommendations of the Bank shall, in specific cases, be forwarded to the
appropriate Minister for necessary action.
(3) For the purposes of implementation of this section of this Act the other
financial institutions and specialised banks shall be treated in the same
manner as other banks with respect to the requirements of section 24 of
this Act.
[No 38 of 1998]
35. Failing Bank
(1) Where a bank informs the Bank that -
(a) it is likely to become unable to meet its obligations under this Act; o
(b) it is about to suspend payment to any extent;
(c) it is insolvent; or
(d) where, after an examination under section 33 of this Act or otherwise
howsoever, the Bank is satisfied that the bank is in a grave situation
as regards the matter referred to in section 33(1) of this Act,
the Governor may by order in writing exercise any one or more of the powers
specified in subsection (2) of this section.
(2) The Governor may by order in writing under subsection (1) of this section­
(a) prohibit the bank from extending any further credit facility for such
period as may be set out in the order, and make the prohibition subject
to such exceptions, and impose such conditions in relation to the
exceptions as may be set out in the order, and from time to time, by
further order similarly made, extend the aforesaid period;
(b) require the bank to take any steps or any action or to do or not to do
any act or thing whatsoever, in relation to the bank or its business or
its directors or officers which the Bank may consider necessary and
36
which is set out in the order, within such time as may be stipulated
therein;
(c) remove for reasons to be recorded in writing with effect from such
date as may be set out in the order, any manager or officer of the
bank, notwithstanding anything in any written law or any limitations
contained in the memorandum and articles of association of the bank;
[No 40 of 1999]
(d) in respect of a bank, notwithstanding anything in any written law or
any limitations contained in the memorandum and articles of
association of the bank, and in particular, notwithstanding any
limitation therein as to the minimum or maximum number of
directors, for reasons to be recorded in writing­
(i) remove from office, with effect from such date as may be set
out in the order, any director of the bank; or
(ii) appoint any person or persons as a director or directors of the
bank, and provide in the order for the person or persons so
appointed to be paid by the bank such remuneration as may be
set out in the order;
(e) appoint any person to advise the bank in relation to the proper
conduct of its business, and provide in the order for the person so
appointed to be paid by the bank such remuneration as may be set out
in the order.
36. Control of failing bank
If after taking such of the steps stipulated in section 35 of this Act or such other
measures as in the opinion of the Bank may be appropriate in the circumstance,
the state of affairs of the bank concerned does not improve, the Bank may turn
over the control and management of such bank to the Nigeria Deposit Insurance
Corporation (hereinafter in this Act referred to as “the Corporation:) on such
terms and conditions as the Bank may stipulate from time to time.
37
[No 38 of 1998]
37. Power over significantly under-capitalised banks
Where the Corporation has assumed control over a bank as provided under
section 36 of this Act and such bank is significantly under-capitalised to the
extent that its risk weighted assets ratio is below 5 per cent but above 2 per cent,
the Corporation may­
(a) require the bank to submit a recapitalisation plan acceptable to the
Corporation within a stipulated period; or
(b) prohibit the bank from extending any further credit and incurring any
additional capital expenditure without the approval of the Corporation; or
(c) notwithstanding the provisions of section 7 of this Act, require the bank to
take such steps or to do or not to do any act or thing whatsoever in relation
to the business of the bank or its directors or officers, which the
Corporation may consider necessary within such time as the Corporation
may stipulate; or
(d) with the approval of the Bank remove, for reasons to be recorded in
writing and with effect from any date as may be specified, any director,
manager, officer or employee of the bank; or
(e) appoint with the approval of the Bank any person or persons as a director
or directors of the bank and cause their remuneration to be provided by the
bank.
[No 38 of 1998]
38. Management of failing bank
(1) Where the Corporation has assumed control of the business of a bank
pursuant to section 36 of this Act, the Corporation shall remain in control
of and continue to carry on the business of the bank in the name and on
behalf of the bank until such a time as in the opinion of the Bank, it is no
longer necessary for the Corporation to remain in control of the business
of the bank.
38
[No 38 of 1998]
(2) Accordingly, the cost and expenses of the Corporation or remuneration of
an appointed person of the bank shall be a first charge on the assets of the
bank.
39. Power of the Bank to revoke licence or apply to court
In the event that the bank over which the Corporation has assumed control
cannot be rehabilitated, the Corporation may recommend to the Bank other
resolution measures which may include the revocation of the bank’s licence.
[No. 38 of 1998 and No. 40 0f 1999]
40. Application to the Federal High Court for winding up
Where the licence of a bank has been revoked pursuant to section 39 of this
Act, the Corporation shall apply to the Federal High Court for a winding up
order of the affairs of the bank.
[No 38 of 1998]
41. Legal proceedings, etc.
(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law or
enactment, no suit shall be instituted against a bank whose control has
been assumed by the Corporation.
(2) If any such proceeding is instituted in any court or tribunal against the
bank, it shall abate, cease or be discontinued without further assurance
other than this Act.
[No 38 of 1998]
42. Corporation to forward returns
The Corporation shall, while acting as the liquidator of a licensed bank, forward
to the Bank copies of any returns which it is required to make, from time to
time, by the Bank.
[No 38 of 1998]
39
General and Supplemental
43. Restriction on the use of certain names
(1) Except with the written consent of the Governor­
(a) no bank shall, as from the commencement of this Act, be registered
or incorporated with a name which includes the words “Central”
“Federal,” “Federation”, “National”, “Nigeria”, “Reserve”, “State”,
“Christian”, “Islamic”, “Moslem”, “Quranic”, or “Biblical”;
(b) no person other than a bank licensed under this Act shall use or
continue to use the word “bank” or any of its derivatives, either in
English or in any other language in the description or title under
which the person is carrying on business in Nigeria:
Provided that paragraph (b) of this subsection shall not apply to
banking institutions referred to in section 53 of this Act.
(2) Every bank shall use as part of its description or title, the word “bank”
or anyone or more of its derivatives, either in English or in some other
language.
(3) Subsection (1) of this section shall not apply to any registered
association of banks, bankers or bank employees formed for the protection
of their mutual interest or in furtherance or promotion of education and
training of personnel for financial institutions in Nigeria.
(4) Any person who acts in contravention of this section is guilty of an
offence and liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding N50,000 for each
day during which the act continues.
[No 38 of 1998]
44. General restriction on advertisement for deposits
(1) No person other than a bank or any other person authorised to take
deposits shall issue any advertisement inviting the public to deposit
money with it.
(2) Any person who issues an advertisement in contravention of the
40
provisions of subsection (1) of this section is guilty of an offence and
liable on conviction to a fine of N100,000 or to imprisonment for a term of
10 years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
[No 38 of 1998]
(3) Where any bank proposes to issue any advertisement, the bank shall
deliver to the Bank the text of the proposed advertisement together with
the bank’s latest published accounts, and shall thereafter comply with such
directives and conditions as the Bank may prescribe and such text shall be
regarded as confidential information.
(4) Any bank which fails to comply with the provisions of subsection (3) of
this section is guilty of an offence and liable to a fine of N50,000 and the
bank shall in addition pay a fine of N1,000 for every day during which an
advertise­ment issued in contravention of subsection (3) of this section
continues.
(5) In this Act, “advertisement” includes any form of advertising, whether in
publication or by the display of notice or by means of circular or other
documents or by any exhibition of photographs or cinematograph or by
way of sound broadcasting or television or loudspeakers or other public
address systems and references to the issuing of an advertisement shall be
construed accordingly; and for the purposes of this Act, an advertisement
issued by any person by way of display or exhibition in a public place shall
be treated as issued by him on every day on which he causes or permits it
to be so displayed or exhibited.
(6) An advertisement which contains information calculated to lead directly
or indirectly to the deposit of money by the public shall be treated as an
advertisement inviting the public to deposit money.
(7) An advertisement issued by any person on behalf of or to the order of
another person shall be treated as an advertisement issued by that other
person and for the purpose of any proceedings under this Act, an
41
advertisement inviting the public to deposit money with a person specified
in the advertisement shall be presumed, unless the contrary is proved, to
have been issued by the person.
45. Power of the President to proscribe trade union
(1) If the President is satisfied that any trade union, the members of which are
employed in a bank, has been engaged in acts calculated to disrupt the
economy of Nigeria, he may by order, published in the Gazette, proscribe
that union (hereafter in this section referred to as a “proscribed union”)
which shall, as from the date of the order, cease to exist.
(2) A proscribed union shall, not later than 14 days from the date of the order
under subsection (1) of this section, surrender its certificate of registration
to the Registrar who shall take such steps in relation to the distribution of
the assets of the union as he deems necessary or in accordance with the
registered rules of the union.
(3) No person who immediately before the date of an order under this section
was an officer of a proscribed union shall at any time after that date be an
officer of any trade union any of the members of which are employed by a
bank.
(4) If the certificate of registration of a proscribed union is not delivered to the
Registrar as required under subsection (2) of this section, every person
who immediately before the proscription of the union was an officer
thereof is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N5,000
or to imprisonment for 6 months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(5) Any person who contravenes subsection (3) of this section is guilty of an
offence and liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of 5 years
without an option of a fine.
(6) In this section­
“officer” in relation to a union, means any person holding official
position in that trade union and, accordingly, includes in particular,
42
any president, secretary or treasurer thereof and every member of the
committee of management however described;
“Registrar” means the Registrar of Trade Unions appointed under
section 46 of the Trade Unions Act.
[CapT14, LFN 2010]
46. Closure of bank during a strike
(1) No bank shall incur any liability to any of its customers by reason only of
failure on the part of the bank to open for business during a strike.
(2) If as a result of a strike, a bank fails to open for business, the bank shall,
within 24 hours of the beginning of the closure, obtain the approval of the
Bank for any continued closure of the bank.
47. Prohibition of the receipt of commissions, etc. by staff of banks
(1) Any director, manager, officer or employee of a bank or any other person
receiving remuneration from the bank, who asks for, receives, consents or
agrees to receive any gift, commission, employment, service, gratuity,
money, property or thing of value for his own personal benefit or
advantage or for that of any of his relations, from any person-
(a) for procuring or endeavouring to procure for any person any
advances, loans or credit facility from the bank; or
(b) for the purpose or discount of any draft, note, cheque, bill of
exchange or other obligation by that bank;
(c) for permitting any person to overdraw any account with that bank
without proper authority or compliance with rules and guidelines for
that purpose;
is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to pay to the Bank a fine of
N50,000 or imprisonment for a term of 5 years or to both such fine and
imprisonment and in addition any such gift or other commission shall be
forfeited to the Federal Government.
[No 38 of 1998]
43
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) of this section shall not in any manner
derogate from, and shall be without prejudice to any other written law
relating to corruption or illegal gratification
48. Disqualification and exclusion of certain individuals from management of
banks
(1) Every bank shall, before appointing any director or chief executive, seek and
obtain the Bank’s written approval for the proposed appointment.
(2) No person shall be appointed or shall remain a director, secretary or an
officer of a bank who­
(a) is of unsound mind or as a result of ill health is incapable of carrying
out his duties; or
(b) is declared bankrupt or suspends payments or compounds with his
creditors including his bankers; or
(c) is convicted of any offence involving dishonesty or fraud; or
(d) is guilty of serious misconduct in relation to his duties; or
(e) in the case of a person possessed of professional qualification, is
disqualified or suspended (otherwise than of his own request) from
practising his profession in Nigeria by the order of any competent
authority made in respect of him personally.
(3) No person who has been a director of or directly concerned in the
management of a bank which has been wound up by the Federal High
Court shall, without the express authority of the Governor, act or continue
to act as a director of, or be directly concerned in the management of any
other bank.
(4) Any person whose appointment with a bank has been terminated or who
has been dismissed for reasons of fraud, dishonesty or conviction for an
offence involving dishonesty or fraud shall not be employed by any bank
in Nigeria.
(5) Any bank which knowingly acts in contravention of subsection (1), (2),
44
(3) or (4) of this section is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to
a fine of N100,000.
[No 40 of 1999]
(6) Where an offence committed by a bank under subsection (4) of this
section is proved to have been committed with the knowledge or
connivance of any director, manager or any other officer of the bank, he,
as well as the bank is guilty of an offence and the director, manager or any
other officer of the bank shall on conviction be liable to imprisonment for
a term of not less than 5 years or to a fine of N50,000 or to both such
imprisonment and fine.
[No 40 of 1999]
(7) It shall not be a defence for any director, manager or officer of a bank to
claim that he is not aware of the provisions of subsection (4) of this
section, except he can prove that he had obtained prior clearance of such a
person from the secretary of the Banker’s Committee who maintains a
register of terminated, dismissed or convicted staff of banks on the ground
of fraud or dishonesty.
Miscellaneous Matters
49. Offences by companies etc. and by servants and agents
. (1) Where any offence against any provision of this Act has been committed
by a body corporate or firm, any person who was a director, manager,
secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate or firm purporting
to act in such capacity shall, in addition to the body corporate or firm, be
deemed to be guilty of that offence unless he proves that the offence was
committed without his consent or connivance and that he exercised all
such diligence to prevent the commission of the offence as he ought to
have exercised, having regard to the nature of his functions in that capacity
and to all the circumstances.
(2) Where any person would be liable under this Act to any punishment or
45
penalty for any act, omission, neglect or default, he shall be liable to the
same punishment or penalty for every such act, omission, neglect or
default of any clerk, servant or agent of the clerk or servant of such agent:
Provided that such act, omission, neglect or default was committed by
the clerk or servant in the course of his employment or by the agent when
acting in the course of his employment in such circumstances that had the
act, omission, neglect or default been committed by the agent, his
principal would have been liable under this section.
50. Offences by directors and managers of banks
Any person, being a director or manager of a bank, who fails to­
(a) take all reasonable steps to secure compliance by the bank with the
requirements of this Act; or
(b) take all reasonable steps to secure the correctness of any statement
submitted under the provisions of this Act,
is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
N50,000 or imprisonment for a term of 3 years or to such fine and
imprisonment.
[No 38 of 1998]
51. Penalties for offences not otherwise provided for
Any bank which contravenes or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
Act or any regulations made thereunder for which an offence or penalty is not
expressly provided is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding N50,000.
[No 38 of 1998]
52. Repealed [No 38 of 1998]
53. Protection against adverse claims
(1) Neither the Federal Government nor the Bank nor any officer of that
Government or Bank, shall be subject to any action, claim or demand by
or liability to any person in respect of anything done or omitted to be done
46
in good faith in pursuance or in execution of, or in connection with the
execution or intended execution of any power conferred upon that
Government, the Bank or such officer, by this Act.
(2) For the purpose of this section, the Minister or any officer duly acting on
his behalf shall be deemed to be an officer of the Federal Government and
the Governor, any Deputy Governor of the Bank or other employee
thereof or any person holding any office therein or appointed by the Bank
under section 33 (2) of this Act, shall be deemed to be an officer of the
Bank.
54. Priority of local deposit liabilities
Where a bank is unable to meet its obligations or suspends payment, the assets of
the bank in the Federation shall be available to meet all the deposit liabilities of
the bank and such deposit liabilities shall have priority over all other liabilities
of the bank.
55. Application of Companies and Allied Matters Act
(1) The provisions of this Act shall apply without prejudice to the provisions
of the Companies and Allied Matters Act, 1990 in so far as they relate to
banks and to winding-up by the Federal High Court.
[Cap. C20, LFN 2010]
(2) Where any of the provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act
1990 are inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, the provisions of this
Act shall prevail.
56. Application of Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act
The provisions of this Act shall apply without prejudice to the provisions of the
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act and where any of the provisions of
this Act are inconsistent with any provisions of that Act, the provisions of this
Act shall prevail.
[Cap. N102, LFN 2010]
47
57. Power to make regulations
(1) The Governor may make regulations, published in the Federal Gazette, to
give full effect to the objects and objectives of this Act.
(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of subsection (1) of this section, the
Governor may make rules and regulations for the operation and control of
all institutions under the supervision of the Bank.
[No 38 of 1998]
PART II
Other Financial Institutions
58. Prohibition of unlicensed financial institutions
(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of Part I of this Act, no person shall
carry on other financial business in Nigeria other than insurance and
stockbroking except it is a company duly incorporated in Nigeria and
holds a valid licence granted under section 59 of this Act.
(2) Any person or institution which, before the commencement of this Act
was carrying on such other financial business as are referred to under
subsection (1) of this section, shall apply in writing to the Bank for a
licence within six months from the date of commencement of this Act.
(3) Any person or institution which fails to apply as provided in subsection (2)
of this section shall cease to carry on such financial business.
59. Application for licence
(1) Any person wishing to carry on other financial business other than
insurance and stockbroking in Nigeria shall apply in writing to the Bank
for the grant of a licence and shall accompany the application with the
following-
(a) a draft copy of the memorandum and articles of association of the
proposed financial business;
(b) such other information, documents and reports as the Bank may,
from time to time, specify; and
48
(c) the prescribed application fee.
(2) After the applicant has provided all such information, documents and
reports as the Bank may require under subsection (I) of this section, the
Bank may grant the licence with or without conditions or refuse to grant
the licence.
(3) Where an application for a licence is granted, the Bank shall give written
notice of that fact to the applicant and the licence fee shall be paid.
(4) The Bank may vary or revoke any conditions subject to which a licence
was granted or may impose fresh or additional conditions to the grant of a
licence.
(5) Where the Bank proposes to vary, revoke or impose fresh or additional
conditions, the Bank shall before exercising such power, give notice of its
intention to the person or institution concerned and give such a person or
institution an opportunity to make representation to the Bank thereon.
(6) Any person who transacts a business without a valid licence under section
58 of this Act or sub-section (2) of this section, whether in the case of an
individual or in the case of a body corporate, is guilty of an offence and
liable­
(a) in the case of a body corporate, to a fine of N1,000,000; and
(b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding N1,000,000 or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to both such fine
and imprisonment.
[No 40, 1999]
60. Failure to comply with conditions of licence
(1) Any person who fails to comply with any of the conditions of its licence is
guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
N5,000 for each day during which the condition is not complied with.
[No 38 of 1998]
(2) Every person or institution carrying on such financial business as are
49
referred to in section 56 of this Act shall-
(a) comply with the Monetary Policy Guidelines and other directives as
the Bank may, from time to time, specify;
(b) furnish within the stipulated time any statistical and other return as
the Bank may, from time to time, require.
(3) Any person who fails to comply with paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection
(2) of this section is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not less than two years and not exceeding three
years or to a fine of N5,000 for each day during which such failure occurs.
[No 38 of 1998]
(4) Persistent failure to comply with the guidelines or other directives of the
Bank or persistent refusal to supply returns in the prescribed form may be
a ground for the revocation of a licence.
61. Supervisory power of the Bank
(1) The Bank shall have power to­
(a) supervise and regulate the activities of other financial institutions
and specialised banks;
(b) prescribe the minimum paid-up capital requirement of other financial
institutions and specialised banks.
[No 38 of 1998]
(2) The Bank may appoint examiners and any other person to carry out
regular or routine examination of the books and affairs of other financial
institutions.
(3) Where the Governor is satisfied that it is in the public interest so to do, he
may, in addition to the routine or regular examination, order a special
examination or investigation of the books and affairs of any other financial
institution and for that purpose, the Governor shall have power to appoint
one or more qualified persons other than the officers of the Bank to
conduct special examination or investigation, under conditions of
50
confidentiality of the books and affairs of such other financial institution.
(4) The cost and expenses of the Bank or the remuneration of the person so
appointed, as the case may be, shall be payable from the fund and property
of the financial institution.
62. Control of failing other financial institutions
(1) If, after taking such of the steps stipulated in section 35 of this Act such
other measures as in the opinion of the Bank may be appropriate in the
circumstance, the state of affairs of the other financial institution
concerned does not improve, the Bank may turn over the control and
management of such other financial institution to an appointed person on
such terms and conditions as the Bank may stipulate from time to time.
(2) If after taking such steps as specified in subsection (1) of this section as in
the opinion of the Governor may be appropriate in each circumstance, the
state of affairs of the other financial institution concerned does not
improve, the Bank shall have power to revoke the licence of such other
financial institution.
(3) Any other financial institution whose licence is revoked pursuant to
subsection (2) of this section shall be wound up by a person appointed by
the Bank.
(4) The cost and expenses of the Bank or the remuneration of the person so
appointed pursuant to subsection (1) of this section shall be payable from
the fund and property of the financial institution.
[No 38 of 1998]
63. Application of Act to other financial institutions
The provisions of section 35 of this Act shall apply with such necessary
modifications to other financial institutions.
[No 40 of 1999]
51
PART III
Miscellaneous and Supplementary
64. Failure to comply with rules, etc.
(1) Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Act, the Governor may
impose a penalty not exceeding N2,000,000 or suspension of any licence
issued on a bank or any other financial institution for the bank’s or other
financial institution’s failure to comply with any rules, regulations,
guidelines or administrative directives made, given or issued by the Bank
under this Act.
[No 38 of 1998]
(2) The Governor may suspend any licence issued or given to any bank or
any other financial institutions which fails to comply with any rules,
regulations, guidelines or administrative directives made, given or issued
to it by the Bank under this Act.
[No 38 of 1998]
65. Powers as to the offences and the Attorney-General’s Fiat
(I) The Governor of the Bank may compound any offence punishable
under this Act by accepting such sums of money as he thinks fit, not
exceeding the amount of maximum fine to which that person would have
been liable if he had been convicted of the offence.
(2) Any moneys paid to the Governor pursuant to subsection (1) of this
section, shall be paid into the Bank’s penalty account which shall be
established for that purpose.
(3) No prosecution in respect of any offence under this Act shall be instituted
without the consent in writing of the Attorney-General of the Federation.
[No. 38 of 1998 and No. 40 of 1999]
66. Interpretation
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires -
“associate” means a company in which another company owns not less
52
than twenty per cent of the shares;
“bank” means a bank licensed under this Act;
“Bank” means the Central Bank of Nigeria;
“banking business” means the business of receiving deposits on current
account, savings account or other similar account, paying or collecting
cheques, drawn by or paid in by customers; provision of finance or such
other business as the Governor may, by order published in the Gazette,
designate as banking business;
“chief executive” in relation to a bank means a person, by whatever name
called, who either individually or jointly with one or more other person, is
responsible, subject to the authority of the board of directors, for the
conduct of the business and administration of the bank;
“commercial bank” means any bank in Nigeria whose business includes
the acceptance of deposits withdrawable by cheques;
“community bank” means a bank whose business is restricted to a
specified geographical area in Nigeria;
“deposit” means money lodged with any person whether or not for the
purpose of any interest or dividend and whether or not such money is
repayable upon demand upon a given period of notice or upon a fixed
date;
“Deputy Governor” means a Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of
Nigeria. “director” includes any person by whatever name he may be
referred to, carrying out or empowered to carry out substantially, the same
functions of a director in relation to the affairs of a company incorporated
under the Companies and Allied Matters Act, 1990;
“factoring” means the business of acquiring debts due to any person;
“Federation” means the Federal Republic of Nigeria;
“Governor” means the Governor or any of the Deputy Governors of the
Central Bank of Nigeria;
53
“leasing” means the business of letting or subletting movable property on
hire for the purpose of the use of such property by the hirer or any other
person in any business whatsoever and where the lessor is the owner of the
property regardless of whether the letting is with or without an option to
purchase the property;
“licence” means a licence issued under this Act;
“merchant bank” means a bank whose business includes receiving
deposits on deposit account, provision of finance, consultancy and
advisory services relating to corporate and investment matters, making or
managing investments on behalf of any person;
“other financial institution” means any individual, body, association or
group of persons; whether corporate or unincorporated, other than the
banks licensed under this Act which carries on the business of a discount
house finance company and money brokerage and whose principal object
include factoring, project financing, equipment leasing, debt
administration, fund management, private ledger services, investment
management, local purchases order financing, export finance, project
consultancy, financial consultancy, pension fund man­agement and such
other business as the Bank may from time to time designate;
“President” means the President, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed
Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria;
“profit and loss sharing bank” means a bank which transacts investment
or commercial banking business and maintains profit and loss sharing
accounts”;
“relation of person” includes father, mother, child, brother, sister, uncle,
aunt and cousins where applicable, and their spouses;
“shareholders’ funds” means the aggregate of paid-up share capital,
statutory and all other reserves;
“specialised banks” include Nigerian Industrial Development Bank,
54
Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank, Nigerian Export Import
Bank, Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry, the Urban
Development Bank, Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria and all Primary
Mortgage Institutions, Community Banks, Peoples Bank of Nigeria and
such other banks as may be designated from time to time.
”state” means any of the States of the Federation.
67. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act.
55
APPENDIX 1
52. The Governor may exempt community banks or profit and loss sharing banks
from the provisions of this Act.
60B. Power of Government to freeze accounts
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other enactment, where the
Governor has reason to believe that transactions undertaken in any bank
account with any licensed bank are such as may involve the commission
of any criminal offence under any law, he may make ex parte application
for an order of the Federal High Court verifying on oath the reasons for his
belief, and on obtaining such Court Order direct or cause direction to be
issued to the manager of the bank where the account is situated or believed
to be or in the alternative to the head office of such bank directing the bank
to freeze forthwith all transactions.
(2) The manager of a bank in which a direction has been issued on an account
under subsection (1) of this section shall, on receipt of such direction,
suspend all banking transactions whatsoever relative to such account for
such period as may be specified in the direction.
(3) Where an account has been frozen pursuant to this section, the Governor
shall refer the matter to the Nigeria Police Force, the National Drug Law
Enforcement Agency or any other appropriate regulatory authority.
(4) Where it is not possible for the Nigeria Police Force, the National Drug
Law Enforcement Agency or any other appropriate regulatory authority to
conclude its investigations within the period stipulated in the Court order,
the Governor shall apply to the Federal High Court for an order for the
continued freezing of the account concerned.
[2002 No. 10]
56
EXPLANATORY NOTE
(This note does not form part of the above Act but is intended to explain its purport)
The Act, among other things, regulates banking and other financial institutions by
prohibiting the carrying on of such businesses in Nigeria except under licence and by
a company incorporated in Nigeria. Adequate provisions have been made regarding
the proper supervision of such institutions by the Central Bank of Nigeria.
57
APPENDIX 2
ERRORS AND OMISSIONS CORRECTED IN THE BANKS AND OTHER
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (BOFI) ACT LFN 2004 CAP. B3
The following is a compendium of the errors observed in the BOFI Act LFN 2004
Cap. B3 which have been corrected herein.
It is our observation that the observed errors occurred as a result of the harmonization
of the principal legislation (BOFI Act 1991) with the subsequent amendments made
in 1997, 1998, 1999 & 2002 which, among other reasons, inadvertently imported
provisions that have been repealed. Please, see BOFI (Amendment) Act Nos 4 of
1997 and 38 of 1998. It is instructive to note that even though Act No. 38 of 1998 was
considered during the course of the preparation of LFN 2004 somehow, the
amendments introduced by the repealed Act No.4 of 1997 were inadvertently
included in BOFI Act, LFN 2004, CAP B3. Also, the provision on freezing of
accounts introduced by BOFI (Amendment) Act No 10 of 2002 was omitted in LFN
2004 and has been inserted in this compilation.
S/N SECTIONS OF COMMENTS
THE BOFI
ACT LFN 2004
1 S. 1(1) The functions, powers and duties of the CBN were made subject
to the supervision of the Minister of Finance by virtue of section
2 of Act No. 4 of 1997. As mentioned earlier, this Act had been
repealed by Act No. 38 of 1998 thereby restoring the original
provision of section 1 and other provisions of the BOFI Act,
1991 hitherto affected by Act No. 4 of 1997.
2 S. 1(2) The marginal note referring to Act No.4 of 1997 as the authority
for this provision should be removed for the same reason as item
1 above
3 S. 3(3) The language of this provision has been altered by section 2 of
the BOFI (Amendment) Act No. 10 of 2002 which was not
considered in the compilation of the LFN 2004.
4 S. 3(5) This sub-section which was introduced by Act No 4 of 1997 was
repealed by Act No. 38 of 1998 thereby restoring the original
provision of Section 3 of the BOFI Act, 1991
5 S. 20 (5) This sub-section which was also introduced by Act No 4 of 1997
was repealed by Act No. 38 of 1998 thereby restoring the
original provision of Section 20 of the BOFI Act, 1991
6 S.29(4) The rendition in the LFN is different from how it was couched in
the enabling Act. While the enabling Act has paragraphs A & B,
58
the LFN merged the two paragraphs. Since the section was not
affected in any of the amendment Acts, we have restored the
provisions in the enabling Act.
7 S29(5) The rendition in the LFN is the amendment effected by Act No
38 of 1998 which was repealed by Act No 40 of 1999 thereby
restoring the provision in the enabling Act.
8 S. 29(9) Same as item 5.
9 S.30 The section was introduced by Act No 4 of 1997 which had been
repealed by Act No. 38 of 1998 thereby restoring the original
provision of Section 30 of the BOFI Act, 1991. The section
was therefore, deleted.
10 S.31(8) The reference to ''1997 No.4'' and "1998 No.38" is misleading.
The provision is contained in the primary legislation and is not
affected by any of these amendment Acts
11 S.43 Reference to"1997 No.4" should be deleted as Act No 4 of 1997
is no longer as extant law.
12 S43(1)(b) Section 53 that was mentioned in the proviso to S. 43(1)(b) has
no relevance to the provision in this section. The appropriate
section is section 52 which has been inadvertently omitted in the
LFN.
13 S.44 The provisions amending Act No. 4 of 1997 have been
incorporated inadvertently. The original provision has therefore
been restored.
14 S44(2) The rendition of the sub-section in the LFN had been repealed
by Act No 38 of 1998. The Act (No 38 of 1998) also amended
the provision in the principal Act. The rendition in Act No 38
of 1998 has been restored.
15 S.50 See comment on S.44 (item 13) above.
16 S.51 Reference to "No 4 of 1997" should be deleted as Act No 4 of
1997 is no longer as extant law.
17 S.52 The section was inadvertently omitted in the LFN. It is pertinent
to mention that Act No.4 of 1997 which repealed this section has
been repealed by Act No. 38 of 1998. The section as rendered
in the principal Act should, therefore, be restored. However, due
to numbering challenges, it could not be restored as section 52 in
the LFN. It has been attached as a separate document in this
compilation.
18 S.60B This sub-section which was on the power of Government to
freeze accounts was introduced by BOFI (Amendment) Act No.
10 of 2002 as Section 60B. It was inadvertently omitted in the
BOFI Act, LFN 2004, Cap B3. It would be incongruous to
insert it as Section 60B because it is not the appropriate section.
59
We have, therefore, attached it as a separate document in this
compilation.
19 S.62(2) Amendment to S.59A (2) of the principal Act by No 4 of 1997
has been abrogated by Act No. 38 of 1998 thereby restoring the
provision of the principal Act.
60
