Federal Republic of Nigeria
Official Gazette
No. 55 Lagos – 1st June, 2007 Vol.94
Government Notice No. 34
The following is published as Supplement to this Gazette:
Act No. Short Title Page
7 Central Bank of Nigeria Act, 2007 .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. A63-19
Printed and Published by The Federal Government Printer, Lagos, Nigeria
FGP 95/62007/1,000 (OL 58)
Annual Subscription from 1st January, 2007 is Local: N15,000.00 Overseas: N21,500.00
[Surface Mail] N24,500.00 [Second Class Air Mail]. Present issue N350.00 per copy.
Subscribers who wish to obtain Gazette after 1st January should apply to the Federal Government
Printer, Lagos for amended Subscriptions.
A63
CENTRAL BANK OF NIGERIA ACT, 2007
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
SECTION:
1. Establishment of the Central Bank of Nigeria.
2. Objects of the Bank.
3. Head Office and branches.
4. Capital.
5. Operating surplus and general reserve fund.
6. Establishment of the Board.
7. Management of the Bank.
8. Appointment, qualification and remuneration of Governor and Deputy Governors.
9. Governors and Deputy Governors to be fully devoted to the service of the Bank.
10. Appointment of other Directors.
11. Disqualification and cessation of appointment.
12. Establishment of Monetary Policy Committee.
13. Meetings of the Board.
14. Appointment of Secretary to the Board and other employees.
15. Currency of Nigeria.
16. Determination of exchange rate of the Naira.
17. Sole right of issuing notes and coins.
18. Power to print notes and coins to be legal tender.
19. Denomination and form of currency notes and coins.
20. Bank’s currency notes and coins to be legal tender.
21. Tampering with or trading in notes and coins.
22. Lost and damaged notes and coins.
23. Exemption from stamp duty.
24. Composition of external reserves.
25. Maintenance of external reserves.
26. Power to buy and sell Nigerian currency.
27. Banking operations.
28. Treasury operations.
29. Credit operations.
30. Liquidity Management.
31. Developmental function.
32. Incidental Powers.
33. Power to require or share information.
34. Prohibited activities.
35. Publication of monetary policy rate.
36. Services to the Federal Government.
37. Federal Government’s usage of other banks and State Treasuries.
38. Advances to Federal Government.
39. Power to act as banker to State Governments, etc
40. Power to act as agent for Federal, State or Local Governments.
41. Bankers to other banks.
42. Co-operation with banks in Nigeria.
43. Establishment of Financial Services Regulation Co-ordinating Committee.
44. Objectives of the Committee.
45. Reserve requirements.
46. Appointment of other bank as agent.
47. Payment and settlement systems.
48. Financial Year.
49. Audit.
50. Publication of annual accounts and reports.
51. Powers to make regulations.
52. Protection against adverse claims.
53. Exemption of the Bank from the payment of tax.
54. Proceedings of the Board and the Monetary Policy Committee.
55. Exclusion of the application of the Companies and Allied Matters Acts, 1990.
56. Liquidation.
57. Power to license and regulate credit bureaux.
58. Savings Cap. 192 LFN 1990.
59. Repeal.
60. Interpretation.
61. Citation.
SCHEDULES
CENTRAL BANK OF NIGEIA ACT, 2007 A65
2007 ACT, No.7
An Act to repeal the Central Bank of Nigeria Act 1991 and to re-enact the
Central Bank of Nigeria Act; and for related matters
[25th Day of May, 2007] Commencement.
ENACTED by the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria –
1. (1) There is established for Nigeria a body known as the Central Establishment of
Bank of Nigeria (hereinafter in this Act referred to as “the Bank”). the Central Bank
of Nigeria.
(2) The Bank shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession
and a common seal and may sue and be sued in its corporate name.
(3) In order to facilitate the achievement of its mandate under this Act
and the Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act, and in line with the
objective of promoting stability and continuity in economic management,
the Bank shall be an independent body in the discharge of its functions.
(4) Subject to the limitations in this Act, the Bank may acquire, hold
and dispose of movable and immovable property for the purpose of its
functions.
2. The principal objects of the Bank shall be to – Objects of the
(a) ensure monetary and price stability; Bank.
(b) issue legal tender currency in Nigeria;
(c) maintain external reserves to safeguard the international value of the
legal tender currency;
(d) promote a sound financial system in Nigeria; and
(e) Act as banker and provide economic and financial advice to the
Federal Government.
3. The Bank shall have its Head Office in any location which is by law Head Office
the capital of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and may open branches and branches
in any part of Nigeria and appoint agents and correspondents abroad
in accordance with the decisions of the Board.
4. (1) The authorized capital of the Bank shall be one hundred billion
Naira.
(2) All the capital of the Bank shall be subscribed and held only by
the Federal Government.
(3) The authorized and paid-up capital may be increased by such
amount as the Board may, from time to time, determine with the
approval of the President, and shall be subscribed by the Federal
Government and paid up at par.
Operating 5. (1) The Bank shall -
surplus and
general (a) In respect of each financial year, determine its operating surplus which shall be
reserve fund. the remaining sum from its income and other receipts after meeting all expenditure as
approved by the Board.
(b) as approved by the Board for that year, make provision for the contribution to
staff pension funds in accordance with the Pension Reform Act 2004 and for any other
purpose approved by the Board.
(2) The Bank shall establish a general reserve fund and shall allocate thereto at the
end of each financial year one-quarter of its operating surplus for the year.
(3) The balance of the operating surplus shall be paid to the Federal Government
half-yearly.
6. (1) There shall be for the Bank a Board of Directors (in this Act referred to as “the
Establishment Board”) which shall be responsible for the policy and general administration of the affairs
of the Board. and business of the Bank.
(2) The Board shall consist of -
(a) a Governor who shall be the Chairman;
(b) four Deputy Governors;
(c) the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Finance;
(d) five Directors; and
(e) Accountant-General of the Federation.
(3) The Board shall be responsible for -
(a) the consideration and approval of the annual budget of the Bank;
(b) the approval of the audited and management accounts and the consideration of
the management letter from the external auditors.
(c) the formulation and implementation of exchange rate policy;
(d) making recommendation to the President for the appointment of auditors in
accordance with section 49 of this Act, the provision of the necessary facilities and the
rates of remuneration;
(e) the establishment and closing of branches and currency centres; and
(f) carrying out of such other activities as are necessary and expedient for the
purposes of achieving the objectives of the Bank.
(4) The Board shall approve the detailed responsibilities of each of the Deputy
Governors on the recommendation of the Governor.
(5) Without prejudice to Sub-section (4) of this section, the Board may, on the
recommendation of the Governor, assign or re-assign the Deputy Governors, from time
to time, as may be expedient for the performance of the Bank’s functions under or
pursuant to this Act.
7. – (1) The Governor or in his absence, one of the Deputy Governors Management
nominated by him, shall be in charge of the day-to-day management of of the Bank.
the Bank and shall be answerable to the Board for his acts and decisions.
(2) The provisions of section 6(1) of this Act shall apply in relation
to the general policy pursued or intended to be pursued on any
administrative matters including staff pensions, salaries, allowances and
any other similar matters.
8. – (1) The Governor and Deputy-Governors shall be persons of Appointment,
recognized financial experience and shall be appointed by the President Qualification
subject to confirmation by the Senate on such terms and conditions as and
may be set out in their respective letters of appointment. remuneration
of Governor
(2) The Governor and Deputy Governors shall be appointed in the and Deputy
first instance for a term of five years and shall each be eligible for re- Governors.
appointment for another term not exceeding five years:
Provided that, of the first four Deputy Governors to be so
appointed, on e shall in the first instance be appointed for three years and
two shall in the first instance be appointed for four years.
(3) The salaries, fees, wages or other remuneration or allowances
including pension and other allowances payable to the Governor and to
the Deputy Governors shall be as stipulated from time to time by the
Board subject to the approval of the President.
(4) The Governor shall appear before the National Assembly at
semi-annual hearings as specified in sub-section (5) regarding -
(a) efforts, activities, objectives and plans of the Board with
monetary policy, and
(b) economic development and prospects for the future described
in the report required in sub-section (5) (b) of this section.
(5) The Governor shall, from time to time -
(a) keep the President, informed of the affairs of the Bank
including a report on its budget; and
(b) make a formal report and presentation on the activities of the
Bank and the performance of the economy to the relevant
Committees of the National Assembly.
9. The Governor and the Deputy Governors shall devote the whole of Governor and
their time to the service of the Bank and while holding office shall not Deputy
engage in any full or part time employment or vocation whether Governors to
remunerated or not except such personal or charitable causes as be fully
may be determined by the Board and which do not conflict with or devoted to
detract from their full time duties: the service of
the Bank.
Provided that the Governor or any of the Deputy Governors may, by
virtue of his office, be appointed with the approval of the Board to -
(a) act as member of any Commission established by the Federal
Government to enquire into any matter affecting currency or banking in Nigeria;
(b) become Governor, Director or member of the Board or by whatever
name called, of any international bank or international monetary institution to
which the Federal Government shall have interest or give support or approval;
and
(c) become Director of any corporation in Nigeria in which the Bank may
participate under section 31 of this Act.
Appointment 10. – (1) The five Directors of the Bank shall be appointed by the President
of other subject to confirmation by the Senate and in appointing the five external
Directors. Directors of the Bank, the President shall have due regard to a fair
representation of the financial, agricultural, industrial and commercial interests
and the principle of Federal Character.
(2) A Director appointed pursuant to this section shall be a person of
recognized standing and experience in any of economics, law, public
administration, business administration, accounting, banking and finance, but
while a Director of the Bank, he shall not hold office as a Director on the Board
of any Federal, State or Local Government or of any other body:
Provided that he may hold office as a Director of any private
commercial, financial, agricultural, industrial, or other organization or institution
so long as his duties in respect thereof do not conflict with his duties as
Director of the Bank.
(3) A Director appointed pursuant to this section shall -
(a) hold office for four years and shall be eligible for re-appointment
for another term of four years;
(b) be entitled to such fees and allowances as may be prescribed by
Disqualification rules made in that behalf of the Board and approved by the President.
and cessation
of 11. – (1) A person shall not remain a Governor, Deputy Governor or
appointment. Director of the Bank if he is -
(a) a member of any Federal or State legislative house; or
(b) a Director, officer or employee of any bank licensed under the
Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act.
(2) The Governor, Deputy Governor or Director shall cease to hold
office in the Bank if he -
(a) becomes of unsound mind or, owing to ill health, is incapable of
carrying out his duties;
(b) is convicted of any criminal offence by a court of competent
jurisdiction except for traffic offences or contempt proceedings arising in
connection with the execution or intended execution of any power or duty
conferred under this Act or the Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act;
(c) is guilty of a serious misconduct in relation to his duties under
this Act;
(d) is disqualified or suspended from practicing his
profession in Nigeria by order of a competent authority made in respect
of him personally;
(e) becomes bankrupt;
(f) is removed by the President:
Provided that the removal of the Governor shall be supported
by two-thirds majority of the Senate praying that he be so removed.
(3) The Governor or any Deputy Governor may resign his
office by giving at least three months’ notice in writing to the President
of his intention to do so and any Director may similarly resign by giving
at least one month’s notice in writing to the President of his intention to
do so.
(4) If the Governor, any Deputy Governor of Director of the
Bank dies, resigns or otherwise vacates his office before the expiry of
the tem for which he has been appointed, there shall be appointed a fit
and proper person to take his place on the Board for the unexpired
period of the term of appointment in the first instance if the vacancy is
that of -
(a) the Governor or a Deputy Governor, the appointment
shall be made in the manner prescribed by section 8(1) and (2) of this
Act; and
(b) any Director, the appointment shall be made in the
manner prescribed by section 10(1) and (2) of this Act.
12. – (1) in order to facilitate the attainment of the objective Establishment
of price stability and to support the economic policy of the Federal of Monetary
Government, there shall be a Committee of the Bank known as the Policy
Monetary Policy Committee (in this Act referred to as “the MPC”). Committee.
(2) The MPC shall consist of -
(a) the Governor of the Bank who shall be the Chairman;
(b) the four Deputy Governors of the Bank;
(c) two members of the Board of Directors of the Bank;
(d) three members appointed by the President; and
(e) two members appointed by the Governor.
(3) The MPC shall have responsibility within the Bank for
formulating monetary and credit policy.
(4) The appointment of a member of the MPC pursuant to
Sub-section 2 (d) and (e) of this section, the remuneration, filling of
temporary vacancies, qualification, tenure of office and disqualification
shall be subject to the same terms as are stipulated for a Director under
section 10 and 11 of this Act.
(5) The provisions of the Second Schedule to this Act shall Second
have effect with respect to the proceedings of the MPC. Schedule.
Meeting of 13. – (1) Meetings of the Board shall take place as often as may be required, but not
the Board. less than six times in every financial year of the Bank.
(2) The Governor shall preside at every meeting of the Board and in his absence,
a Deputy Governor designated by him, shall preside at such meeting.
(3) Five members of the Board, three of whom shall be Directors other than the
Governor or the Deputy Governors, shall form a quorum at any meeting.
(4) Unless otherwise provided in this Act, decisions shall be by a simple majority
of the votes of the members present, but in case of any equality of votes, the person
presiding shall have a casting vote.
Appointment 14. – (1) There shall be for the Board a Secretary who shall be –
of Secretary
to the Board (a) appointed by the Board; and
and other (b) be responsible to the Board through the Governor.
Employees.
(2) The Secretary shall be responsible for –
(a) convening, on the authority of the Chairman, meetings of the Board;
(b) recording the minutes of all meetings of the Board and such other meetings as
the Board may direct;
(c) acting as Secretary to any Committee of the Board;
(d) maintaining and keeping minute books and a register of the Directors of the
Bank;
(e) keeping in safe custody all title documents relating to the Bank’s properties;
(f) keeping in safe custody the common seal of the Bank;
(g) keeping in safe custody all title documents relating to the Bank’s properties;
(h) carrying out such other duties and responsibilities as may be assigned to
him, from time to time, by the Governor.
(3) The Secretary to the Board shall be a lawyer, with at least, 10 years cognate
experience.
(4) Appointment of employees of the Bank shall only be in respect of positions
created by the Bank and on such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the
Board:
Provided that the appointment and removal of staff of the grade of Assistant
Director and above4 shall be with the approval of the Board.
(5) A salary, fee, wage, allowance or other remuneration paid by the Bank shall
not be computed by reference to the operating surplus of the Bank.
(6) The salaries, fees, wages, or other remuneration payable to or in respect of
employees of the Bank, other than the Governor or Deputy Governors, shall be as
stipulated, from time to time, by the Board.
15. The unit of currency in Nigeria shall be the Naira which shall be divided into Currency of
one hundred kobo. Nigeria
16. The exchange rate of the Naira shall be determined, from time to time, by a Determination
suitable mechanism devised by the Bank for that purpose. of exchange
rate of the
Naira.
17. The Bank shall have the sole right of issuing currency notes and coins Sole right of
throughout Nigeria and neither the Federal Government nor any State Government, issuing notes
Local Government, other person or authority shall issue currency notes, bank notes or and coins.
coins or any documents or tokens payable to bearer on demand being document or
token which are likely to pass as legal tender.
18. The Bank shall - Power to
print notes
(a) arrange for the printing of currency notes and the minting of coins; and mint
coins.
(b) issue, re-issue and exchange currency notes and coins at the Bank’s offices
and at such agencies as it may, from time to time, establish or appoint;
(c) arrange for the safe custody of un-issued stocks of currency notes and for
the preparation, safe custody and destruction of plates and paper for the printing of
currency notes and disc for the minting of coins; and
(d) arrange for the destruction of currency notes and coins withdrawn from
circulation under the provisions of section 20 (3) of this Act or otherwise found by the
Bank to be unfit for use.
19. –(1) The currency notes and coins issued by the Bank shall be - Denomination
and form of
(a) in such denominations of the Naira or fractions thereof as shall be currency
approved by the President on the recommendation of the Board; and notes and
coins.
(b) of such forms and designs and bear such devices as shall be approved
by the President on the recommendation of the Board.
(2) The standard weights and composition of coins issued by the Bank and
the amount of remedy and variation shall be determined shall be determined by the
President on the recommendation of the Board.
20. –(1) The currency notes issued by the Bank shall be legal tender in Nigeria Bank’s
at their face value for the payment of any amount. currency
notes and
(2) The coins issued by the Bank shall, it such coins have not been coins to be
tampered with, be legal tender in Nigeria at their face value up to such amount or legal tender.
amounts as may be determined, from time to time, by the Bank.
(3) Notwithstanding sub-sections (1) and (2) of this section, the Bank
shall have power, if directed to do so by the President and after giving reasonable
notice in that behalf, to call in any of its notes or coins on payment of the face value
thereof and any note or coin with respect to which a notice has been given under this
sub-section, shall , on the expiration of the notice, cease to be legal tender, but,
subject to section 22 of this Act, shall be redeemed by the Bank upon demand.
(4) It shall be an offence punishable by a term of
imprisonment of not less than 5 years for any person to
falsify, make or counterfeit any bank note or coin issued by
the Bank which is legal tender in Nigeria.
(5) A person who refuses to accept the Naira as a means of
payment is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of
N50,000 or 6 months imprisonment:
Provided that the Bank shall have powers to prescribe the
circumstances and conditions under which other currencies may be
used as medium of exchange in Nigeria.
Tampering 21. ------(1) A person who tampers with a coin or note
With or trading in issued by the Bank is guilty of an offence and shall
on notes and coins imprisonment for a term not
less than six months or to a fine not less than
N50,000 or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) A coin or note shall be deemed to have
been tampered with if the coin or note has been
impaired, diminished or lightened otherwise than by
fair wear and tear or has been defaced by stumping,
engraving, mutilating, piercing, stapling, writing,
tearing, soiling, squeezing or
any other form of deliberate and willful abuse whether
the coin or note has or has not been thereby
diminished or lightened.
(3) For the avoidance of doubt, spraying of,
dancing or matching on the Naira or any note issued
by the Bank during social occasions or otherwise
howsoever shall constitute an abuse and defacing of
the Naira or such note and shall be punishable under
Sub-section (1) of this section.
(4) It shall also be an offence punishable under Sub-section (1) of this section
for any person to hawk, sell or otherwise trade in the Naira notes, coins or any
other note issued by the Bank.
(5) In this section------
(i) “Matching” includes spreading scattering or littering of any
surface with any Naira notes or coins and stepping thereon,
regardless of the value, volume, occasion or intent.
(ii) “Spraying” includes adorning, decorating or spraying anything or any
person or any part of any person or the person of another with Naira notes or
coins or sprinkling or sticking of the Naira notes or coins in a similar manner
regardless of the amount, occasion or the intent.
22.-------(1) A person shall not be entitled to recover from the Bank the value
Lost and
of any lost, stolen, mutilated or imperfect not or coin.
damaged notes
and coins
(2) The circumstances in which, and the conditions and limitations
subject to which, the value of the lost, stolen, mutilated or imperfect notes or
coins may be refunded ex-gratia shall be within the absolute discretion of the
Bank.
Exemption from
23. The Bank shall not be liable for the payment of any stamp duty under the
stamp duty
Stamp Duties Act in respect of its notes issued as currency.
24. The Bank shall at all times maintain a reserve of external assets
Composition of
consisting of all or any of the following -
external
reserves
(a) gold coin or bullion :
(b) balance at any bank outside Nigeria where the currency is freely
convertible and in such currency, notes, coins, money at call and any bill of
exchange bearing at least two valid authorized signatures and having a
maturity not exceeding ninety days exclusive of days of grace :
© treasury bills having a maturity not exceeding one year issued by the
Government of any country outside Nigeria whose currency is freely
convertible ;
(d) securities of, or guarantees by, a government of any country outside
Nigeria whose currency is freely convertible provided such securities shall
mature in a period not exceeding ten years from the date of acquisition and
are of such investment grade as may be determined by the Board from time
to time :
(e) securities of, or guarantees by, international financial institutions if such
securities are expressed in currency freely convertible, in the form of
investment grade assets as may be determined by the Board and
maturity of the securities shall not exceed five years.
(f) Nigeria’s gold tranche in the International Monetary Fund ;
(g) Allocation of Special Drawing Rights made to Nigeria by the
International Monetary Fund :
(h) Investment by way of loans or debenture in an investment bank or
development financial institutions within or outside Nigeria for
maximum period of five years in so far as ---
(i) the amount invested is not more than 5% of the total foreign
reserves,
(ii) the reserve level at the time of investment is more than such
amount as will sustain twenty-four months of import, and
(ii) the loan or debenture is denominated in foreign currency :
Provided they are liquid foreign currency assets that are of investment
grade and in the form of freely convertible currencies.
25. The Bank shall use its best endeavour to maintain external reserves at
levels considered by the Bank to be appropriate for the economy and the Maintenance of
monetary system of Nigeria. external
reserves.
26. The Bank shall issue and redeem on demand at its Head Office, Nigerian
currency against other currencies eligible for inclusion in the reserve of Power to buy
external asset under this Act. and sell Nigeria
currency.
27. The Bank may ---
(a) issue demand drafts and effect other kinds of remittance
payable at its own offices or at the offices of agencies or correspondents : Banking
Operations
(b) open accounts for and accept deposits from the Federal,
State and Local Governments, and from funds, institutions and corporations
of all such Governments, banks and other credit or financial institutions;
© maintain accounts with central banks and other banks outside
Nigeria :
(d) act as correspondent, banker or agent for any central bank
or other monetary authority established under government auspices :
(e) accept from customers, for custody, securities and other
articles of value ;
and
(f) undertake on behalf of customers and correspondents, the
purchase, sale, collection and payment of securities, currencies and credit
instruments in Nigeria or abroad and the purchase or sale of gold or silver.
28, The Bank may --- Treasury
Operations
(a) purchase and sell gold coin or bullion ;
(b) purchase, sell, discount and rediscount inland bills of
exchange and promissory notes arising out of bona fide commercial
transactions bearing two or more valid and authorized signatures and
maturing within ninety days exclusive of days of grace, from the date of
acquisition.
© purchase, sell, discount and rediscount inland bills of exchange
and promissory notes bearing two or more valid and authorized signatures
drawn or issued for the purpose of financing seasonal agricultural operation or
the marketing of crops, semi-manufacturing or manufacturing operation
designed for export, or the marketing of these products and maturing within
180 days, exclusive of days of grace, from the date of acquisition ;
(d) purchase, sell, discount or rediscount treasury bills of the
Federal Government which have been publicly offered for sale
and are to mature within 364 days;
(e) purchase, sell, discount or rediscount treasury certificates
maturing within such a period as may be determined by the Federal
Government and specified by an instrument made by the Federal
Government ;
(f) discount and rediscount project-tied bonds issued by State
Government, Local Governments, Corporations owned by the Federal or
State Governments, being bonds which have been publicly offered for sale
and with maturity not exceeding three years;
(g) purchase and sell securities of the Federal Government
maturing in not more than twenty-five years which have been publicly offered
for sale or form part of an issue which is being made to the public at the time
of acquisition, so that the total amount of such securities of maturity
exceeding two years in the ownership of the Bank other than securities held in
terms of paragraph (h) of this section or held by the Bank as collateral under
section 29(1)(b) shall not together at any time exceed seventy-five per cent of
the total demand liabilities of the Bank ;
(h) invest in securities of the Federal Government for any amount
and to mature at any time, on behalf of staff pension funds and other internal
funds of the Bank ;
(i) purchase and sell foreign currencies and purchase, sell, discount
and rediscount bills of exchange and treasury bills drawn in or on places
abroad and maturing within 184 days exclusive of days of grace from the date
of acquisition ;
(j) purchase and sell securities of or guaranteed by any government
whose currency is freely convertible or securities issued by international
financial institutions, of which Nigeria is a member, which are also expressed
in currencies which are freely convertible and are of investment grade; and
(k) hold redeemable bonds for the purpose of regularizing any currency
exchange exercise.
29---(1) The Bank may ---
Credit
(a) grant advances for fixed periods not exceeding three months against Operations
public issued treasury bills of the Federal Government ;
(b) grant advances for fixed periods not exceeding one year at a
minimum rate of interest of at leas one per cent above the Bank’s monetary
policy rate against ----
(i) gold coin or bullion,
(ii) securities of the Federal Government which have been publicly
offered for sale and are to mature within a period of twenty-five years;
Provided that no advance so secured shall at any time exceed seventy-five
per cent of the market value of the security pledged and that the total of such
securities held by the Bank is within the limitation imposed by section 28(g).
(iii) such bills of exchange and promissory notes are eligible for purchase,
discount or rediscount by the Bank up to seventy-five per cent of their nominal
value,
(iv) warehouse warrants or their equivalent (securing possession of
goods), in respect of staple commodities or other goods duly insured and with
a letter of hypothecation from the owner. ;
Provided that no such advances shall exceed seventy-five per cent of the
current market value of the commodities in question, or
(v) treasury certificates issued by the Federal Government :
Provided that no advances so secured shall at any time exceed seventy-five
per cent of the market value of the certificates pledged ;
© notwithstanding the provisions of section 34(d0 of this Act, grant
temporary advances to banks within the meaning of the Banks and Other
Financial Institutions Act which participate in bank clearing in respect of
temporary debit balances on their accounts at such rate of interest and under
such terms as the Bank may, from time to time determine ;
(d) grant advances to any authority -----
(i) for fixed periods not exceeding one year at a rate of interest
at least one per cent above the Bank’s monetary policy rate, and
(ii) except as prescribed in Sub-section (1)(e) of this section, upon such
conditions as the Bank may specify or as prescribed to ensure payment
thereof with interest ;
(e) grant advances referred to in Sub-section (1)(d) of this section in any
particular case where a guarantee in writing is given by the Federal
Government to the Bank on behalf of any such authority so that ---
(i) the total advances which may, subject to the provisions of this
section, be granted shall not exceed an amount considered by the Bank to be
adequate for the authority to commence its operations at the beginning of the
crop or produce season.
(ii) such advances shall be secured so soon after the advances have been
granted as may be agreed by the Bank (either in part or in whole) as
prescribed in sub-section (1) (a) and (b) of this section and the said provisions
shall be so construed ;
(f) any advance which may be granted by virtue of the provisions of Sub-
section (1)(d) and (e) of this section shall be used solely for the purpose of
financing ------
(i) the purchasing and marketing operations authorized to be undertaken
by any such authority by the law under which the authority was established or
as may be approved by the Bank, and
(ii) with the approval of the Bank, other operations as may be incidental
thereto :
Provided that any such authority may, if it so wishes, make advances to
any licensed buying agent (within the meaning of any law under which the
authority was established) for the purchase of produce for sale to the said
authority, and provided also that the quantity of produce to be so purchased is
included in the estimated tonnage of crops against which total advances are
to be made by the Bank.
(2) Paragraphs (d) to (f) of Sub-section (1) of this section relate to any
authority of the Federal Government, State Government, Local Government
or two or more State Governments including an interim authority established
for such purpose by any law in operation in Nigeria.
(3) The reference in paragraphs (d) to (f) of Sub-section (12) of this section
to the granting of advances includes a reference to the provision of credit
facilities.
30. The Bank shall have power ------
Liquidity
(a) to carry out open market operations for the purpose of maintaining Management
monetary stability in the economy of the country, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing, the Bank may also for that purpose issue, place,
sell, repurchase, amortize or redeem securities (which shall constitute its
obligations) and the securities shall be issued at such rate of interest and
under such conditions of maturity, amortization, negotiability and redemption
as the Bank may deem appropriate ;
(b) to issue other forms of securities including treasury bills as it may
deem necessary for purposes of liquidity management ;
© to sell or place by allocation to each bank any securities issued under
paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section; and
(d) to repurchase, amortize or redeem in such manner as the Bank may
deem appropriate, any such securities.
31. The Bank may subscribe to, hold and sell shares of any Corporation or
company or debentures thereof set up with the approval of or under the Developmental
authority of the Federal Government for the purpose of promoting the Function
development of money or capital markets in Nigeria or of stimulating financial
or economic development so however that in any such case, the total value of
the holdings of shares or, as the case may be, debentures to which this
section applies shall not at any time exceed ten times the aggregate of the
Bank’s paid up capital and the general reserve fund of the Bank.
32.-------(1) The Bank may, subject as is expressly provided in this Act Incidental
generally conduct business as a bank, and do all such things as are incidental Powers
to or consequential upon the exercise of its power or the discharge of its
duties under this Act.
(2) The Governor may, at any time in his discretion and by previous
notice in writing lodged with the Board, decide that the powers conferred by
sections 28(d). (g). (h). 29(1) (b) and 30 of this Act be extended to the
treasury bills and treasury certificates or the securities, as the case may be, of
any State Government with which the Bank appears substantially to have
established relationship of banker, or to any specified treasury bills and
treasury certificates or securities of such a State Government subject to the
same conditions as specified in those paragraphs and subject to limitations
specified in section 28 (g) which limitations shall then apply to the aggregate
value of the Federal and State Government securities so dealt with.
33. ------ (1) In addition to any of its powers under this Act, the Bank may -
Power to require
(a) require persons and institutions having access thereto at all or share
reasonable times, to supply, in such forms as the Bank may from time to time information
direct, information relating to or touching or concerning matters affecting the
economy of Nigeria ; and
(b) issue guidelines to any person and any institutions under its
supervision.
(2) The Bank shall take account of matters of confidential nature
supplied to the Bank under this section, but where the Bank is satisfied that it
is in the national interest and that the person supplying the information does
not object to a proposal to publish it within a reasonable time of becoming
aware of it, the Bank may, from any information in it possession compile and
publish statistical data, and anything relevant thereto, on the national
economy.
(3) Where any person lawfully required to supply information for the
purpose of this section –
(a) supplies information which he knows to be false or supplies the
information recklessly as to its truth or falsity; or
(b) without reasonable excuse (the proof of the reasonableness to lie on
him) fails to comply with any requirement of the Bank under Sub-section (1)
(a) of this section the supply or failure so supply, as the case may be, as
provide, shall be an offence under this section.
(4) An offence under this section is punishable on conviction by ---
(a) imprisonment not exceeding three years or with a fine not exceeding
N10,000,000 for every false information or with both such imprisonment fine ;
(b) a fine n ot exceeding N2,000,000 for failure to comply with any
requirement of the Bank.
(5) A person or institution that fails to comply with any guidelines issued
under Sub-section (1)(b) of this section shall be liable on conviction –
(a) in the case of an institution, to a fine not exceeding N10,000,000; and
(b) in the case of a person, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
three years or to a fine of not less than N50,000 and not exceeding
N2,000,000 or to both such imprisonment and fine.
(6) The Bank may, in the exercise of its powers and on the basis of
reciprocity, enter into agreement or arrangements with other regulatory
authorities in Nigeria or in other countries exercising similar responsibilities for
(a) the promotion of mutual co-operation; and
(b) the exchange of information for purposes of enhancing the
supervision and regulation of financial institutions;
Provided that the exchange of such information shall be conditional upon
assurances of confidential treatment of the information so given or received.
34. The Bank shall not ---
Prohibited
(a) engage in trade or otherwise have a direct interest in any Activities
commercial, agricultural or industrial undertaking, except as provided in
sections 27 to 32 of this Act, or in any other undertaking, except such interest
which the Bank may in any way acquire in the course of the satisfaction of
debts due to it, and provided that all such interests so acquired shall be
disposed of at the earliest suitable time;
(b) except as provided in section 31 of this Act, purchase the shares of
any corporation or company including the shares of any banking institution ‘;
© grant loan upon the security of any shares ;
(d) subject to the provisions of section 38 of this Act, grant secured
advances or advances secured otherwise than as laid down in section 29 (1)
(a) and (b) of this Act ;
Provided that in the event of any debts due to the Bank becoming in the
opinion of the Bank endangered, the Bank may secure such debts on any real
or other property of the debt and may acquire such property which shall be re-
sold at the earliest suitable time.;
(e) purchase, acquire or lease real property except in accordance with
the provision of paragraph (d) of this section and except so far as the Bank
shall consider necessary or expedient for the provision or future provision of
business premises for the Bank and its agencies and any clearing houses set
up as provided in section 47 of this Act and residences for the Governor of the
Bank;
(f) draw or accept bills payable otherwise than on demand ;
(g) pay interest on deposits except deposits in respect of cash reserve
and special deposits as stipulated in section 45 (1) (a) and (c) of this Act ;
(h) open accounts for or accept deposit from persons other than as
provide in section 27 (b) and (c) of this Act.
35. The Bank shall make public, at all times, its monetary policy rate.
Publication of
monetary policy
rate.
36. ---- (1) The Bank shall be entrusted with Federal Government banking and
foreign exchange transactions Service to the
Federal
Government
(2) The Bank shall receive and disburse Federal Government moneys
and keep account thereof;
(3) In any place here the Bank has no branch, it may appoint another
bank to act as its agent for the collection and payment of Federal Government
moneys.
37. Notwithstanding the provisions of section 36 of this Act, the Federal
Government may ---- Federal
Government’s
(a) maintain accounts in Nigeria with other banks in such cases and on usage of other
such conditions as the Bank may determine; and banks and State
Treasuries.
(b) use the services of the State Treasuries for the collection and
payment of Federal Government moneys in places where it may be
appropriate or convenient to do so.
38. ------(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 34 (d) of this Act, the
Bank may grant temporary advances to the Federal Government in respect of Advances to
temporary deficiency of budget revenue at such rate of interest as the Bank Federal
may determine. Government
(2) The total amount of such advances outstanding shall not at any
time exceed five per cent of the previous year’s actual revenue of the Federal
Government.
(3) All Advances made pursuant to this section shall be repaid –
(a) as soon as possible and shall in any event be repayable by the
end of the Federal Government financial year in which they are granted and if
such advances remain unpaid at the end of the year, the power of the Bank to
grant such further advances in any subsequent years shall not be exercisable,
unless the outstanding advances have been repaid; and
(b) in such form as the Bank may determine provided that no
repayment shall take the form of a promissory note or such other promise to
pay at a future date or securitization by way of issuance of treasury bills,
bonds, certificates or other forms of security which is required to be
underwritten by the Bank.
39. The Bank may act as banker to States and Local Governments and
to funds, institutions or corporations established by Federal, State Power to Act as
and Local Governments. banker to State
Governments
etc
40. The Bank may act generally as agent for the Federal Government,
State Governments, or Local Governments. --- Power to Act as
agent for
Federal, State or
Local
Governments
41 The Bank shall act as banker to other banks in Nigeria and ay also
provide banking services to banks outside Nigeria. Banker to other
banks.
42.—(1) The Bank shall wherever necessary seek the co-operation of
and co-operate with other banks in Nigeria to - Co-operation
with banks in
Nigeria
(a) promote and maintain adequate and reasonable financial service for
the public;
(b) ensure high standards of conduct and management throughout the
banking system; and
© further such policies not inconsistent with this Act as shall in the opinion
of the Bank be in the national interest.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 29 (1) © and 34 (d) of this
Act, the Bank may grant loans and other accommodation facilities at such rate
of interest and on such terms as the Bank may determine to any bank which
may be having liquidity problems.
43.---- (1) There is hereby established for the purpose of co-ordination the
Establishment of
supervision of financial institutions, a Financial Services Regulation
Financial
Coordinating Committee (in this Act referred to as “:the Committee”).
Services
Regulation
Coordinating
(2) The Committee shall consist of -
Committee
a) the Governor of the Bank who shall be the Chairman;
b) the Managing Director, Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation;
c) the Director-General, Securities and Exchange Commission;
d) the Commissioner for Insurance;
e) the Registrar-General, Corporate Affairs Commission; and
f) a representative of the Federal Ministry of Finance not below the rank of a Director.
44. Objectives of the Committee
Objectives of
The objectives of the Committee shall be to
the
committee
a) co-ordinate the supervision of financial institutions especially conglomerates
b) cause reduction of arbitrage opportunities usually created by differing regulation and
supervision standards amongst supervisory authorities in the economy
c) deliberate on problems experienced by any members in its relationship with any
financial institution;
d) eliminate any information gap encountered by any regulatory agency in its
relationship with any group of financial institutions;
e) articulate the strategies for the promotion of safe, sound and efficient practices by
financial intermediaries; and
f) deliberated on such other issues as may be specified from time to time
45. Reserve Requirments
--(1) The Bank may, from time to time, issue directives by circular requiring each bank Reserve
to----- Requirements
a) Maintain at all times in the form of cash reserves with the Bank, at its office, a sum
equal to a prescribed ratio of the bank’s deposit liabilities;
b) Hold a minimum amount of specified liquid assets which shall be expressed as a
ratio of deposit liabilities of the bank; and
c) Maintain as special deposits with the Bank at its Head Office a percentage of the
bank’s deposit liabilities or a percentage of an increase or the absolute increase in
such deposit liabilities over an amount outstanding on a date, and for a period as
shall be specified by the Bank.
--(2) For the purpose of Sub-section (1) (a) of this section, the Bank shall specify-
a) The class of deposit liabilities against which the cash reserves mentioned in that
paragraph shall be held; and
b) The ratio of cash reserve which a bank shall so maintain
--(3) for the purpose of Sub-section (1) (a) of this section, the cash reserves of a bank
shall be determined within such period as the bank may, from time to time, specify, on
the basis of the periodic balances of the bank’s deposit liabilities and the Bank shall have
power to-----
a) require each bank from time to time to prepare and deliver to the Bank in such form
and within such period as the Bank may specify, a true and correct statement
showing the position of the deposit liabilities of the bank and the Bank may require
such statement to be made at such intervals as it may specify;
b) require any bank to furnish to it such information and statistics in such form and as
often as the Bank may deem necessary for the purpose of satisfying itself that the
Bank concerned has complied or is complying with the provisions of Sub-Section (1)
of this section.
(4) For the purpose of Sub-section (1) (b) of this section, the Bank shall have power, in
respect of the specified liquid assets which may, from time to time, be held by a bank,
to vary the composition and proportion of each category.
(5) For the purpose of Sub-section (1) (c) of this section, the Bank shall have
Power to specify the class of deposits to which the provisions of that Sub-section
Shall apply and any special deposits held in accordance with that Sub-section shall
not count as specified liquid assets for the purposes of Sub-section (1) (b) of this
section, and subject to the provisions of this Sub-section, the Bank may, at its
discretion, pay interest on such special deposits held by it.
(6) The Bank shall have power to prohibit any bank which fails to comply with
any directive issued under this section, from extending new loans and advances and
from undertaking new investments, until the bank complies with the directive to the
satisfaction of the Bank; and may, in addition, levy fine as appropriate under the
provisions of section 13 (5) of the Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act.
(7) A Bank which furnishes false information to the Bank for any purpose under
this section is guilty of an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not less than
N10,000,000 but not exceeding N20,000,000.
46. Appointment of Other Bank As Agent Appointment
of other Bank
The Bank may appoint its agent any bank in Nigeria on such terms as
as Agent
may be agreed between the Bank and the bank concerned for the issue, re-issue,
exchange and withdrawal of currency notes and coins, or for any other purpose
pertaining to the Bank’s functions under this Act.
47. Payment and Settlement Systems Payment and
The Bank shall facilitate the clearing of cheques and credit instruments settlement
systems
for banks carrying on business in Nigeria and for this purpose, the Bank shall at any
appropriate time establish clearing houses in premises provided by the Bank in such
places as the Bank may consider necessary;
Provided that a Bank may be barred from participating in clearing for such
Period as the Bank may deem fit for non-compliance with directives of the Bank.
(2) Notwithstanding sub-section (1) of this section and in furtherance of the
Provisions of section 2(d) of this Act, the Bank shall continue to promote and facilitate
the development of efficient and effective systems for the settlement of transactions
(including the development of electronic payment systems).
(3) The Bank shall have power to prescribe rules and regulations for the efficient
Operation of all clearing and settlement systems.
(4) In furtherance of the objective of a sound financial system and notwithstanding
the provisions of the Evidence Act, any physical or electronic record
of transactions that is in a format approved by the Bank shall constitute
sufficient proof of such transactions.
48. FINANCIAL YEAR
The Financial Year of the Bank shall begin on 1st January and end on 31st December.
49. AUDIT
-- (1) The accounts of the Bank shall be audited by an auditor or auditors appointed in
accordance with the provisions of Section 6 of this Act.
(2) A report required to be submitted to the National Assembly and the President shall
be published by the Bank in such manner as the Governor may direct.
(3) The Board shall ensure that accounts submitted pursuant to this section shall as
soon as possible be published in the Gazette.
(4) The Bank shall as soon as may be practicable after the last day of each
month make up and publish a return of its assets and liabilities as at the close of
business on that day, or if that day is a holiday, as at the close of business on the last
preceding business day.
50. PUBLICATION OF ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND REPORTS
---(1) The Bank shall, within two months after the close of each financial year, transmit
to the National Assembly and the President a copy of its annual accounts certified by
the Auditor.
(2) A report required to be submitted to the National Assembly and the President
Shall be published by the Bank in such manner as the Governor may direct.
(3) The Board shall ensure that accounts submitted pursuant to this section
Shall as soon as possible be published in the Gazette.
(4) The Bank shall as soon as may be practicable after the last day of each month
make up and publish a return of its assets and liabilities as at the close of
business on that day, or if that day is a holiday, as at the close of business on the last
preceding business day.
(5) A copy of the return referred to in Sub-section (5) of this Section shall be
Forwarded to the President and shall be published in the Gazette
(6) In the application of this section, the gold tranche position at the International
Monetary Fund shall form part of the external reserve assets of the Bank.
51. POWER TO MAKE REGULATIONS
The Board shall have power to make and alter rules and regulations for the good
good order and management of the Bank
52. PROTECTION AGAINST ADVERSE CLAIMS
---(1) Neither the Federal Government nor the Bank nor any officer of that
Government or Bank shall be subject to any action, claim or demand by or liability to
any person in respect of anything done or omitted to be done in good faith in pursuance
or in execution of, or in connection with the execution or intended execution of any
power conferred upon that Government, the Bank or such officer, by this Act.
(2) For the purpose of this section, the Minister or any officer duly acting on his behalf
shall be deemed to be an officer of the Federal Government and the Governor, any
Deputy Governor of the Bank or other employee shall be deemed to be an officer of the
Bank.
53. EXEMPTION OF THE BANK FROM THE PAYMENT OF TAX
---(1) The Bank shall be exempted from the payment of income tax under the
Companies Income Tax Act or any subsequent amendment thereto.
(2) The Bank shall not be liable for the payment of tenement rate, ground rent or
such other property tax imposed under any legislation dealing with real property.
54. EXEMPTION OF THE BANK FROM THE PAYMENT OF TAX
The provisions contained in the First and second schedules to this Act shall have effect
with respect to the proceedings of the Board and Monetary Policy Committee
respectively and the other matters contained therein and the Board shall have power to
amend the provisions of the Schedules as it may deem necessary.
55. EXCLUSION OF THE APPLICATION OF THE COMPANIES AND ALLIED MATTERS
ACT 1990
The provisions contained in the First and second schedules to this Act shall have effect
56. LIQUIDATION
The Bank shall not be placed in liquidation except pursuant to legislation enacted in that
behalf and then only in the manner directed by the legislation.
57. POWER TO LICENSE AND REGULATE CREDIT BUREAUX
--(1) In furtherance of the provisions of Section 2 (d) of this Act, the Bank shall have
power to license, and regulate credit bureaux to collect, in such manner as the Bank
may deem fit, credit information on the customers of banks and other financial
institutions.
(2) For the purpose of Sub-section (1) of this section, the Bank shall have power to
collect in such manner as the Bank may deem fit from any person or any such credit
bureaux, credit information on the customers of banks and other financial institutions
and the Bank may disclose the information so collected in such manner as may be
deemed appropriate by the Bank.
Provided that the disclosure of any credit information by the Bank to any person or
institution shall be confidential between the Bank and the person or institution to whom
the information is disclosed.
(3) A bank shall before granting a loan, advance or credit facility to any customer,
obtain from the Bank credit information on that customer where the amount of the loan,
advance or credit facility is up to one million naira or such sum as may be set from time
to time by the Bank.
58. SAVING CAP 192 LFN 1990
Without prejudice to Section 6 of the Interpretation Act, the repeal of the enactments
referred to in Sub-Section (2) of Section 59 shall not affect anything done under or
pursuant to those enactments.
59. REPEAL
---(1) The Central Bank of Nigeria Act 199 is hereby repealed.
(2) The following amendment enactments are also consequentially repealed ----
(a) Central Bank of Nigeria (Amendment) Act 1993;
(b) Central Bank of Nigeria (Amendment) Act 1997;
(c) Central Bank of Nigeria (Amendment) (N0.2) Act 1998; and
(d) Central Bank of Nigeria (Amendment) Act 1999.
(3) The rights, interests, obligations and liabilities of the Bank existing before
the commencement of this Act under any contract or instruments, or in law or in
equity apart from any contract or instrument, shall by virtue of this Act be
assigned to and vested in the Bank.
60. INTERPRETATION
“Bank” means the Central Bank of Nigeria established under Section 1(1) of
this Act;
“Bank” means a bank licensed under the Banks and Other Financial Institutions
Act 1991 or under the repealed Banking Act or any other prior legislation;
“Bank Examiner” means a Bank Examiner appointed pursuant to the Banks and
Other Financial Institutions Act 1991;
“Board” means the Board of Directors of the Bank established under Section
6(1) of the Act;
“Governor” and “The Deputy Governor” means respectively the Governor and
Deputy Governors of the Bank appointed under this Act;
“Officers” or “Officers of the Bank” means officers of the Central Bank of Nigeria;
“President” means the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria;
61. CITATION
This Act may be cited as the CENTRAL BANK OF NIGERIA ACT, 2007.
FIRST SCHEDULE SECTION 54
Proceedings of the Board, etc
1. –(1) Not less than three weeks notice shall be given of each meeting of the
Board and such notice shall be sent to every Director at his registered address but
Where it is necessary to convene an emergency meeting, all reasonable steps shall be
taken to give notice to every Director who is at the time in Nigeria.
(2) A person other than the Directors and the Secretary shall not attend meetings
of the Board but the Chairman may request the presence of officers of the Bank when
technical matters are under consideration.
2. –(1) The Board shall cause minutes to be duly entered in a book provided
for that purpose:-
(a) of all appointments of officers made by the Board;
(b) of the names of all Directors present at each meeting of the Board; and
(c) of all resolutions and proceedings of each meeting.
(2) A copy of the minutes shall be circulated at that or succeeding meeting and
After approval by the Board, signed by the Chairman
(3) The common seal of the Bank shall be affixed under such conditions as may
Be determined, from time to time, by a resolution of the Board.
(4) A Director shall, on appointment or re-appointment, sign a declaration as in
Form 1 in the Annex to this Schedule affirming his allegiance and service to the Bank
and pledging himself to observe strict secrecy respecting all transactions of the
Bank.
(5) A Director having any interest, directly or indirectly in any dealing or business in
which the Bank is concerned shall disclose such interest at the meeting of the
Board at which the dealing or business is discussed and in no circumstances shall he
Vote on the matter. If required by the Board to do so, he shall withdraw from the meeting.
(6) --(1) A Director, officer and other employee of the Bank shall be indemnified
by the Bank against all losses, costs and expenses incurred by him by reason of any
contract entered into or act or deed done in the proper and careful discharge of his
duties. The Bank shall pay all such costs, losses and expenses.
(2) No Director, officer or other employee of the Bank shall be liable to
the Bank for any losses, costs or expenses incurred by the Bank by the insufficiency
or deficiency of value of, or title to, any property or security acquired or taken on behalf
of the Bank or by the insolvency, bankruptcy or wrongful act of any customer or
debtor of the Bank, unless due to willful default in the execution of his duties.
(7) In conclusion with the Board, The Governor and Deputy Governors shall be
responsible for----
(a) fixing the rate or rates of discount or rediscount and the rate or rates of
Interest on advances to Government and to other customers of the Bank;
(b) devising suitable mechanism to determine rates of exchange at which the
Bank shall buy and sell foreign currencies under section 16 of this Act;
(c) the appointment of auditors in accordance with Section 49 of this Act, the
Provision of the necessary facilities and the rates of remuneration;
(d) the establishment and closing of branches and currency centres;
(e) the appointment of Branch Controllers and Currency Officers; and
(f) the appointment of officers and other employees;
Provided that the Governor shall have authority to make such appointment as
he deems appropriate without consultation with the Board in relation to officers and
employees whose salaries do not exceed Central Bank Service Scale 06.
8. ---(1) The Governor and Deputy Governors shall have special responsibility for -----
(a) the organization of the management of the Bank at its Head Office, Branches
and Currency Centres;
(b) causing---
(i) true accounts to be kept of all transactions entered into by the Bank and
of the assets and liabilities of the Bank and of all valuables entrusted to the
Bank;
(ii) the compilation, form and publication of accounts in accordance with
Section 50 (2) of this Act.
(c) the safe-keeping of all the assets of the Bank and the valuables entrusted to
the Bank;
(d) the discharge by officers and other employees of the Bank of the duties placed
Upon them;
(e) the supervision of arrangements relating to the issue and redemption of
Currency notes and coins and all matters connected with the forms, design and
Composition of currency notes and coins;
Provided that the Director of Currency Operations shall be charged with the direct
responsibility under the Governor for specified matters under this sub-paragraph.
(2) The Governor shall work out the detailed responsibilities of each of the
Deputy Governors, and may assign any of his duties during his absence from duty or
at such other time to any of the Deputy Governors as he deems fit.
(3) Without prejudice to sub-paragraph (2) of this paragraph, the Governor
Shall have power to assign or re-assign the Deputy Governors, from time to time, as
may be expedient for the performance of the Bank’s function under or pursuant to this
Act.
9. The books of the Bank shall be kept at the Head Office of the Bank at such
other places as the Board may, from time to time, determine.
10. The Governor shall formulate, for the approval of the Board, general rules
And any subsequent amendments thereto, providing for-------.
(a) the safe keeping of the common seal of the Bank;
(b) the safe keeping of the assets of the Bank and of valuables entrusted to the
Bank;
(c) the safe keeping of stocks of unissued or redeemed currency and the
Preparation, safe custody and destruction of plates and paper for the printing of
Currency notes and disc for the minting of coins;
(d) the protection of bank notes and coins in transit;
(e) the conditions under which any Zonal Controller, Branch Controller or
Currency Officer may be appointed; and
(f) the conditions governing discounts and advances;
(g) the exercise of dual control and general security throughout the Bank; and
(h) such additional arrangement which may be made to ensure the efficient
working of the Bank, through proper observance of security and the accuracy of
the accounts of the Bank.
11. ----(1) The Board shall , from time to time as it deems fit, delegate some of its
responsibilities to the committee of Governors.
(2) Formal meetings of the Committee of Governors shall take place as often as
may be required but not less than once a month.
(3) The Committee of Governors shall cause minutes to be duly entered in
Books provided for that purpose during each of its formal meetings.
(4) The Governor shall preside over every meeting but in his absence a Deputy
Governor designated by him shall act in his place, and in the absence of both the
Governor and any such designated Deputy Governor, one of the other Deputy
Governors present shall act as Chairman.
12. The Board by resolution shall, for such purposes as it may, from time to
time, decide, authorize the Governor, the Deputy Governors or any officer of the Bank
to sign documents relating to all aspects of the Bank’s business, provided that such
documents are not required by law or common practice to be given under seal. Any
such authorizations shall forthwith be notified in the GAZETTE.
13. ----(1) An officer or other employee of the Bank shall not occupy any other
Office or hold any other employment whether remunerated or not except with the
Approval of the Board embodied in a resolution and only in the following capacities----
(a) as member of any economic research institution or of any commission
Established by the Federal Government to enquire into any matter affecting currency
or banking in Nigeria or into such other subjects relating to the functions of the
Bank under this Act;
(b) as director or member of the Board or by whatever name called, of any
International bank, international monetary authority or economic institution to
which the Federal Government shall have interest or give support or approval;
(c) as Director or alternate Director of any Corporation in Nigeria in which the Bank
may participate under Section 31 of this Act.
(d) as member of other agency of the Federal, State and Local Government.
(2) A remuneration to which any officer or other employee of the Bank is entitled
in respect of any appointment made by virtue of the provisions of this Schedule shall
be paid direct to the Bank.
(3) This Schedule shall not prevent the Bank from employing, at the Board’s
discretion and subject to such terms and conditions as shall be laid down by the
Board, part-time advisers for particular purposes and for specific period of time.
14. All officers and employees of the Bank shall be required to sign declarations
as in Form 2 in the Annex to this Schedule affirming their allegiance and service to the
Bank and pledging themselves to observe strict secrecy respecting all transactions of
The Bank.
15. ----(1) The appointment of a legal practitioner to the Bank and changes in that
appointment shall be made by the Board on the recommendation of the Governor.
(2) Plaints, writs, statement, affidavits and all other documents connected with
legal proceedings may be signed and verified on behalf of the Bank by any officer
empowered by or under paragraph 12 of this Schedule.
16. The Board may require any officer or other employee to give the Bank, in
such manner as it may require, such security as it may regard reasonable for the
faithful discharge of his duty.
17. In this Schedule----
“Committee of Governors” means a Committee of the Governor and the Deputy
Governors of the Central Bank of Nigeria;
“Director” means a members of the Board of Directors of the Central Bank of
Nigeria.
SECOND SCHEDULE Section 12 (5) and 54
Proceedings of the Monetary Policy Committee
i. The MPC shall meet at least four times in a year
ii. The Governor (or in his absence, the Deputy Governor
responsible for monetary policy) may summon a meeting on
giving not less than 7 days notice.
iii. The quorum shall be six members two of whom shall be the
Governor and a Deputy Governor or two Deputy Governors.
iv. The Chair shall be taken by the Governor or, if he is not
present, the Deputy Governor responsible for monetary
policy.
v. Decisions shall be taken by a vote of all those present at the
meeting.
vi. In the event of a tie, the Chairman shall have a second or
casting vote.
vii. The MPC shall submit periodic report of its meetings and
activities to the Board of Directors of the Bank.
I certify, in accordance with Section 2(1) of the Acts Authentication Act,
Cap. 4, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 1990, that this is a true copy of
the Bill passed by both houses of the National Assembly.
NASIRU IBRAHIM ARAB,
Clerk to the National Assembly
25th Day of May, 2007.
EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM
THIS ACT repeals the Central Bank of Nigeria Act, 1991, re-enacts a new
Central Bank of Nigeria Act, 2007 and established the Central Bank of
Nigeria for the promotion of sound financial system in Nigeria and to act
as banks and provide economic and financial advice to the Federal
Government.
SCHEDULE TO CENTRAL BANK OF NIGERIA BILL, 2007
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5)
Short title of Long title of Summary of Date passed Date passed by
the Bill the the by The House of
Bill Contents of the The Senate Representatives
Bill
Central Bank An Act to This Bill 22nd May, 16th May, 2007
of repeal the repeals the 2007
Nigeria Bill, Central Bank Central Bank
2007 of Nigeria Act of Nigeria Act,
1991 and to 1991 and re-
re-enact a new enacts a new
Central Bank Central Bank
of Nigeria of Nigeria Act,
Act, 2007; 2007
and for related
matters.
I certify that this Bill has been carefully compared by me with the decision reached by
the National Assembly and found by me to be true and correct decision of the Houses
and is in accordance with the provisions of the Acts Authentication Act Cap. 4, Laws of
the Federation of Nigeria, 1990.
NASIRU IBRAHIM ARAB,
CLERK TO THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY
25TH DAY OF MAY, 2007
CHIEF OLUSEGUN OBASANJO, GCFR
PRESIDENT OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
25TH DAY OF MAY, 2007
