CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 1
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
CHAPTER 138
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
LIST OF AUTHORISED PAGES
1 – 2 LRO 1/2008
3 – 6 LRO 1/2002
7 – 28 Original
29 – 30 LRO 1/2008
31 – 38 Original
39 – 40 LRO 1/2008
41 – 52 Original
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
PART I
PRELIMINARY
SECTION
1. Short title.
2. Interpretation.
PART II
SALES AND OTHER TRANSACTIONS
Contracts for Sale
3. Contracts for sale.
4. Vendor or purchaser may obtain decision of court.
Discharge of Incumbrances on Sale
5. Discharge of incumbrances on sale.
General Words
6. General words in conveyance of land, etc.
Covenants for Title
7. Covenants for title to be implied.
Execution of Purchase Deed
8. Rights of purchaser as to execution.
LRO 1/2008 STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 2] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
Production and Safe Custody of Title Deeds
9. Acknowledgement of right to production and undertaking for safe
custody of documents.
PART III
LEASES, FORFEITURES
10. Rent and benefit of lessee’s covenants to run with reversion.
11. Obligation of lessor’s covenants to run with reversion.
12. Apportionment of conditions on severance.
13. On sub-demise title to leasehold reversion not to be required.
14. Contract for lease not part of title to lease.
15. No fine to be exacted for licence to assign.
Forfeiture
16. Restrictions and relief against forfeiture of lease.
PART IV
MORTGAGES
17. Obligation on mortgagee to transfer instead of re-conveying.
18. Power for mortgagor to inspect title deeds.
19. Restrictions on consolidation of mortgages.
Leases, By Mortgagors and Mortgagees
20. Leasing powers of mortgagor and mortgagee in possession.
Sale, Insurance, Receiver, Timber
21. Powers incident to estate or interest of mortgagee.
22. Regulation of exercise of power of sale.
23. Conveyance, receipt, etc., on sale.
24. Mortgagee’s receipts, discharges, etc.
25. Amount and application of insurance money.
26. Appointment, powers, remuneration and duties of receiver.
Action respecting Mortgage
27. Sale of mortgaged property in action for foreclosure or redemption.
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS LRO 1/2008
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 3
PART V
STATUTORY MORTGAGE
28. Form of statutory mortgage in Schedule.
29. Forms of statutory transfer of mortgage.
30. Implied covenants, joint and several.
31. Form of re-conveyance of statutory mortgage.
32. Effect of endorsement by mortgagee on payment of mortgage debt.
PART VI
TRUST AND MORTGAGE ESTATES ON DEATH ......
33. Repealed by Act 5 of 2002..
PART VII
MARRIED WOMEN
34. Power of court to bind interest of married woman.
35. Power of attorney of married woman.
PART VIII
CONSTRUCTION AND EFFECT OF DEEDS AND OTHER
INSTRUMENTS
36. Use of word “grant” unnecessary.
37. Conveyance by a person to himself, etc.
38. Words of limitation in fee or in tail.
39. Powers simply collateral.
40. Conveyance by simple deed.
41. Construction of supplemental or annexed deed.
42. Receipt on deed sufficient.
43. Receipt in deed or endorsed, evidence for subsequent purchaser.
44. Receipt in deed or endorsed, authority for payment to solicitor.
45. Sufficiency of forms.
46. Covenants to extend to heirs, etc.
47. Covenants to bind heirs, etc.
48. Effect of covenant with two or more jointly.
49. Effect of advance on joint account, etc.
50. Grants of easements, etc., by way of use.
51. Provision for all the estate, etc.
PART IX
NOTICE
52. Restriction on constructive notice.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
LRO 1/2002 STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 4] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
PART X
ADOPTION OF ACT
53. Protection of solicitor and trustee adopting Act.
PART XI
DISPOSITION OF CROWN LANDS
54. Minister may dispose of Crown Lands.
PART XII
MISCELLANEOUS
55. Regulations respecting notices.
56. Rules.
57. Orders of court conclusive.
FIRST SCHEDULE — Statutory Mortgage
SECOND SCHEDULE — Short Forms of Deeds
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS LRO 1/2002
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 5
CHAPTER 138
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
An Act for simplifying and improving the practice 7 of 1909
of conveyancing; and for vesting in mortgagees and 28 of 1914
8 of 1955
others various powers commonly conferred by provisions
26 of 1956
inserted in mortgages and other instruments; and for 72 of 1957
amending in various particulars the law of property; and 58 of 1959
28 of 1960
for other purposes.
4 of 1961
43 of 1961
[Commencement 23rd August, 1909]
46 of 1964
24 of 1965
27 of 1973
5 of 2002
PART I
PRELIMINARY
1. This Act may be cited as the Conveyancing and Short title.
Law of Property Act.
2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires — Interpretation.
“bankruptcy” includes liquidation by arrangement,
and any other act or proceeding in law having,
under any Act for the time being in force,
effects or results similar to those of bankruptcy;
and “bankrupt” has a meaning corresponding
with that or bankruptcy;
“building purposes” includes the erecting and the
improving of, and the adding to, and the
repairing of buildings; and a “building lease” is
a lease for building purposes or purposes
connected therewith;
“conveyance” includes assignment, appointment,
lease, settlement and other assurance, and
covenant of surrender, made by deed, on a sale,
mortgage, demise or settlement of any property,
or on any other dealing with or for any
property; and “convey” has a meaning
corresponding with that of conveyance;
“court” means the Supreme Court;
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
LRO 1/2002 STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 6] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
“incumbrance” includes a mortgage in fee, or for a
less estate, and a trust for securing money, and a
lien, and a charge of a portion, annuity, or other
capital or annual sum; and “incumbrancer” has
a meaning corresponding with that of
incumbrance, and includes every person entitled
to the benefit of an incumbrance, or to require
payment or discharge thereof;
Ch. 60. “declaration” means a declaration made under the
Oaths Act;
“income,” in relation to land, includes rents and
profits, and “possession” includes receipt of
income;
“instrument” includes deed, will and Act;
“lease” includes an agreement for a lease where the
lessee has become entitled to have his lease
granted; and “under-lease” includes an
agreement for an under-lease where the under-
lessee has become entitled to have his under-
lease granted; and “under-lessee” includes any
person deriving title under or from an under-
lessee;
“mortgage” includes any charge on any property for
securing money or money’s worth; and
“mortgage money” means money or money’s
worth secured by a mortgage; and “mortgagor”
includes any person from time to time deriving
title under the original mortgagor, or entitled to
redeem a mortgage, according to his estate,
interest or right, in the mortgaged property; and
“mortgagee” includes any person from time to
time deriving title under the original mortgagee;
and “mortgagee in possession” is, for the
purposes of this Act, a mortgagee who, in right
of the mortgage, has entered into, and is in
possession of the mortgaged property;
“property” includes real and personal property and
any estate or interest in any property, real or
personal, and any debt, and any thing in action,
and any other right or interest;
“purchaser” includes a lessee or mortgagee, and an
intending purchaser, lessee or mortgagee, or
other person, who, for valuable consideration,
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS LRO 1/2002
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 7
takes or deals for any property; and “purchase”
has a meaning corresponding with that of
purchaser; but “sale” means only a sale properly
so called;
“rent” includes yearly or other rent, toll, duty, royalty
or other reservation, by the acre, or otherwise;
and “fine” includes premium or fore-gift, and
any payment, consideration or benefit in the
nature of a fine, premium or fore-gift;
“Schedule” means a Schedule to this Act;
“securities” includes stocks, funds and shares;
“solicitor” means a counsel and attorney for the time
being authorised to practise as a counsel and
attorney of the court;
“will” includes codicil;
“writing” includes print; and words referring to any
instrument, copy, extract, abstract or other
document include any such instrument, copy,
extract, abstract or other document being in
writing or in print, or partly in writing and
partly in print.
PART II
SALES AND OTHER TRANSACTIONS
Contracts for Sale
3. (1) Under a contract to grant or assign a term of Contracts for
years, whether derived or to be derived out of a freehold or sale.
leasehold estate, the intended lessee or assign shall not be
entitled to call for the title to the freehold.
(2) Under a contract to sell and assign a term of
years derived out of a leasehold interest in land, the
intended assign shall not have the right to call for the title
to the leasehold reversion.
(3) Recitals, statements and descriptions of facts,
matters and parties contained in deeds, instruments, Acts or
declarations, twenty years old at the date of the contract,
shall, unless and except so far as they shall be proved to be
inaccurate, be taken to be sufficient evidence of truth of
such facts, matters and descriptions.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 8] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
72 of 1957, s. 2.; (4) A purchaser of land shall not be entitled to
28 of 1960, s. 2. require a title to be deduced for a period of more than thirty
years, or for a period extending further back than a grant or
lease by the Crown or a certificate of title granted by the
Ch. 142. court in accordance with the provisions of the Quieting
Titles Act, whichever period shall be the shorter.
(5) A purchaser of any property shall not require the
production, or any abstract or copy, of any deed, will or
other document, dated or made before the time prescribed
by law, or stipulated, for commencement of the title, even
though the same creates a power subsequently exercised by
an instrument abstracted in the abstract furnished to the
purchaser; nor shall he require any information, or make
any requisition, objection or inquiry, with respect to any
such deed, will or document, or the title prior to that time,
notwithstanding that any such deed, will or other
document, or that prior title is recited, covenanted to be
produced, or noticed; and he shall assume, unless the
contrary appears, that the recitals, contained in the
abstracted instruments, of any deed, will or other
document, forming part of that prior title, are correct, and
give all the material contents of the deed, will or other
documents so recited, and that every document so recited
was duly executed by all necessary parties, and perfected,
if and as required, by acknowledgement, enrolment or
otherwise.
(6) Where land sold is held by lease (not including
under-lease), the purchaser shall assume, unless the
contrary appears, that the lease was duly granted; and, on
production of the receipt for the last payment due for rent
under the lease before the date of actual completion of the
purchase, he shall assume, unless the contrary appears, that
all the covenants and provisions of the lease have been
duly performed and observed up to the date of actual
completion of the purchase.
(7) Where land sold is held by under-lease, the
purchaser shall assume, unless the contrary appears, that
the under-lease and every superior lease were duly granted;
and, on production of the receipt for the last payment due
for rent under the under-lease before the date of actual
completion of the purchase, he shall assume, unless the
contrary appears, that all the covenants and provisions of
the under-lease have been duly performed and observed up
to the date of actual completion of the purchase, and
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 9
further that all rent due under every superior lease, and all
the covenants and provisions of every superior lease, have
been paid and duly performed and observed up to that date.
(8) On a sale of any property, the expenses of the
production and inspection of all Acts, records, proceedings
of courts, deeds, wills, probates, letters of administration
and other documents, not in the vendor’s possession, and
the expenses of all journeys incidental to such production
or inspection, and the expenses of searching for, procuring,
making, verifying and producing all certificates,
declarations, evidences and information not in the vendor’s
possession, and all attested, stamped, office or other copies
or abstracts of, or extracts from, any Acts or other
documents aforesaid, not in the vendor’s possession, if any
such production, inspection, journey, search, procuring,
making, or verifying is required by a purchaser, either for
verification of the abstract, or for any other purpose, shall
be borne by the purchaser who requires the same; and
where the vendor retains possession of any document, the
expenses of making any copy thereof, attested or
unattested, which a purchaser requires to be delivered to
him, shall be borne by that purchaser.
(9) On a sale of any property in lots, a purchaser of
two or more lots, held wholly or partly under the same title,
shall not have a right to more than one abstract of the
common title, except at his own expense.
(10) The inability of the vendor to furnish the
purchaser with a legal covenant to produce and furnish
copies of documents of title shall not be an objection to
title in case the purchaser will, on the completion of the
contract, have an equitable right to the production of such
documents.
(11) Such covenants for production as the purchaser
can and shall require shall be furnished at his expense, and
the vendor shall bear the expense of perusal and execution
on behalf of and by himself, and on behalf of and by
necessary parties other than the purchaser.
(12) Where the vendor retains any part of an estate to
which any documents of title relate he shall be entitled to
retain such documents.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 10] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
(13) On a sale of property a stipulation shall be
implied that the purchaser shall be entitled to the benefit of
any insurance against fire which may be then subsisting
thereon in favour of the vendor.
(14) This section applies only to titles and purchasers
on sales properly so called, notwithstanding any
interpretation in this Act.
(15) This section applies only if and as far as a
contrary intention is not expressed in the contract of sale,
and shall have effect subject to the terms of the contract
and to the provisions therein contained.
(16) This section applies only to sales made after the
commencement of this Act.
(17) Nothing in this section shall be construed as
binding a purchaser to complete his purchase in any case
where, on a contract made independently of this section,
and containing stipulations similar to the provisions of this
section, or any of them, specific performance of the
contract would not be enforced against him by the court.
Vendor or 4. (1) A vendor or purchaser of land in The
purchaser may Bahamas, or his representatives respectively, may at any
obtain decision
time or times and from time to time apply in a summary
of court.
way to the court, in respect of any requisitions or
objections, or any claim for compensation, or any other
question arising out of or connected with the contract, (not
being a question affecting the existence or validity of the
contract) and the court shall make such order upon the
application as to it shall appear just, and shall order how
and by whom all or any of the costs of and incident to the
application shall be borne and paid.
(2) This section applies to contracts made either
before or after the commencement of this Act.
Discharge of Incumbrances on Sale
Discharge of 5. (1) Where land subject to any incumbrance, whether
incumbrances on immediately payable or not, is sold by the court, or out of court, the
sale.
court may, if it thinks fit, on the application of any party to the sale,
direct or allow payment into court, in case of an annual sum
charged on the land, or of a capital sum charged on a determinable
interest in the land, of such amount as, when invested in
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 11
securities of the Government of The Bahamas, or of the
United Kingdom, the court considers will be sufficient, by
means of the dividends thereof, to keep down or otherwise
provide for that charge, and in any other case of capital
money charged on the land, of the amount sufficient to
meet the incumbrance and any interest due thereon; but in
either case there shall also be paid into court such
additional amount as the court considers will be sufficient
to meet the contingency of further costs, expenses and
interest, and any other contingency, except depreciation of
investments, not exceeding one-tenth part of the original
amount to be paid in, unless the court for special reason
thinks fit to require a larger additional amount.
(2) Thereupon, the court may, if it thinks fit, and
either after or without any notice to the incumbrancer, as
the court thinks fit, declare the land to be freed from the
incumbrance, and make any order for conveyance, or
vesting order, proper for giving effect to the sale, and give
directions for the retention and investment of the money in
court.
(3) After notice served on the persons interested in
or entitled to the money or fund in court, the court may
direct payment or transfer thereof to the persons entitled to
receive or give a discharge for the same, and generally may
give directions respecting the application or distribution of
the capital or income thereof.
(4) This section applies to sales not completed at the
commencement of this Act, and to sales thereafter made.
General Words
6. (1) A conveyance of land shall be deemed to General words in
include and shall by virtue of this Act operate to convey, conveyance of
land, etc.
with the land, all buildings, erections, fixtures, hedges,
ditches, walls, fences, ways, waters, watercourses, liberties,
privileges, easements, rights and advantages whatsoever,
appertaining or reputed to appertain to the land, or any part
thereof, or at the time of conveyance demised, occupied or
enjoyed with, or reputed or known as part or parcel of or
appurtenant to the land or any part thereof.
(2) A conveyance of land, having houses or other
buildings thereon, shall be deemed to include and shall by
virtue of this Act operate to convey, with the land, houses
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 12] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
or other buildings, all outhouses, erections, fixtures,
cellars, areas, courts, courtyards, cisterns, tanks, sewers,
gutters, drains, ways, passages, lights, watercourses,
liberties, privileges, easements, rights and advantages
whatsoever, appertaining or reputed to appertain to the
land, houses or other buildings conveyed, or any of them,
or any part thereof, or at the time of conveyance demised,
occupied or enjoyed with, or reputed or known as part or
parcel of or appurtenant to, the land, houses or other
buildings conveyed, or any of them, or any part thereof.
(3) This section applies only if and as far as a
contrary intention is not expressed in the conveyance, and
shall have effect subject to the terms of the conveyance and
to the provisions therein contained.
(4) This section shall not be construed as giving to
any person a better title to any property, right or thing in
this section mentioned than the title which the conveyance
gives to him to the land expressed to be conveyed, or as
conveying to him any property, right or thing in this
section mentioned, further or otherwise than as the same
could have been conveyed to him by the conveying parties.
(5) This section applies only to conveyances made
after the commencement of this Act.
Covenants for Title
Covenants for 7. (1) In a conveyance there shall, in the several
title to be cases in this section mentioned, be deemed to be included,
implied.
and there shall in those several cases, by virtue of this Act,
be implied, a covenant to the effect in this section stated,
by the person or by each person who conveys, as far as
regards the subject-matter or share of subject-matter
expressed to be conveyed by him, with the person, if one,
to whom the conveyance is made, or with the persons
jointly, if more than one, to whom the conveyance is made
as joint tenants, or with each of the persons, if more than
one, to whom the conveyance is made as tenants in
On conveyance common, that is to say:
for value by
(a) In a conveyance for valuable consideration,
beneficial owner;
Right to convey; other than a mortgage, the following covenant
Quiet enjoyment; by a person who conveys and is expressed to
Freedom from
convey as beneficial owner (namely) —
incumbrance;
Further
assurance.
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 13
That, notwithstanding anything by the person
who so conveys, or any one through whom he
derives title, otherwise than by purchase for
value, made, done, executed or omitted, or
knowingly suffered, the person who so conveys,
has, with the concurrence of every other person,
if any, conveying by his direction, full power to
convey the subject-matter expressed to be
conveyed, subject as, if so expressed, and in
manner in which, it is expressed to be conveyed;
and that, notwithstanding anything as aforesaid,
that subject-matter shall remain to and be quietly
entered upon, received and held, occupied,
enjoyed and taken, by the person to whom the
conveyance is expressed to be made, and any
person deriving title under him, and the benefit
thereof shall be received and taken accordingly,
without any lawful interruption or disturbance
by the person who so conveys or any person
conveying by his direction, or rightfully
claiming or to claim by, through, under or in
trust for the person who so conveys, or any
person conveying by his direction, or by,
through or under any one not being a person
claiming in respect of an estate or interest
subject whereto the conveyance is expressly
made, through whom the person who so conveys
derives title, otherwise than by purchase for
value; and that, freed and discharged from, or
otherwise by the person who so conveys
sufficiently indemnified against, all such estates
incumbrances, claims and demands other than
those subject to which the conveyance is
expressly made, as either before or after the date
of the conveyance have been or shall be made,
occasioned or suffered by that person or by any
person conveying by his direction, or by any
person rightfully claiming by, through, under or
in trust for the person who so conveys, or by,
through or under any person conveying by his
direction, or by, through or under any one
through whom the person who so conveys
derives title, otherwise than by purchase for
value; and further, that the person who so
conveys, and any person conveying by his
direction, and every other person having or
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 14] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
rightfully claiming any estate or interest in the
subject-matter of conveyance, other than an
estate or interest subject whereto the conveyance
is expressly made, by, through, under or in trust
for the person who so conveys, or by, through or
under any person conveying by his direction, or
by, through, or under anyone through whom the
person who so conveys derives title, otherwise
than by purchase for value, will, from time to
time and at all times after the date of the
conveyance, on the request and at the cost of any
person to whom the conveyance is expressed to
be made, or of any person deriving title under
him, execute and do all such lawful assurances
and things for further or more perfectly assuring
the subject-matter of the conveyance to the
person to whom the conveyance is made, and to
those deriving title under him, subject as, if so
expressed, and in the manner in which the
conveyance is expressed to be made, as by him
or them or any of them shall be reasonably
required,
(in which covenant a purchase for value shall
not be deemed to include a conveyance in
On conveyance consideration of marriage);
of leaseholds for (b) In a conveyance of leasehold property for
value, by
valuable consideration, other than a mortgage,
beneficial
owner; Validity the following further covenant by a person who
of lease. conveys and is expressed to convey as beneficial
owner (namely) —
That, notwithstanding anything by the person who so
conveys, or any one through whom he derives title,
otherwise than by purchase for value, made, done, executed
or omitted, or knowingly suffered, the lease or grant
creating the term or estate for which the land is conveyed is,
at the time of conveyance, a good, valid and effectual lease
or grant of the property conveyed, and is in full force,
unforfeited, unsurrendered, and in nowise become void or
voidable, and that, notwithstanding anything as aforesaid,
all the rents reserved by, and all the covenants, conditions
and agreements contained in, the lease or
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 15
grant, and on the part of the lessee or grantee
and the persons deriving title under him to be
paid, observed and performed, have been paid,
observed and performed up to the time of
conveyance,
(in which covenant a purchase for value shall be
not deemed to include a conveyance in
consideration of marriage);
(c) In a conveyance by way of mortgage, the On mortgage by
following covenant by a person who conveys beneficial owner;
Right to convey;
and is expressed to convey as beneficial owner
Quiet enjoyment;
(namely) — Freedom from
incumbrances;
That the person who so conveys, has, with the
Further
concurrence of every other person, if any, assurance.
conveying by his direction, full power to convey
the subject-matter expressed to be conveyed by
him, subject as, if so expressed, and in the manner
in which it is expressed, to be conveyed; and also
that, if default is made in payment of the money
intended to be secured by the conveyance, or any
interest thereon, or any part of that money or
interest, contrary to any provision in the
conveyance, it shall be lawful for the person to
whom the conveyance is expressed to be made,
and the persons deriving title under him, to enter
into and upon, or receive, and thenceforth quietly
hold, occupy, and enjoy or take and have, the
subject-matter expressed to be conveyed, or any
part thereof, without any lawful interruption or
disturbance by the person who so conveys, or any
person conveying by his direction, or any other
person not being a person claiming in respect of an
estate or interest subject whereto the conveyance is
expressly made; and that, freed and discharged
from, or otherwise by the person who so conveys
sufficiently indemnified against, all estates,
incumbrances, claims and demands whatever,
other than those subject whereto the conveyance is
expressly made; and further, that the person who
so conveys and every person conveying by his
direction, and every person deriving title under
any of them, and every other person
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 16] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
having or rightfully claiming any estate or
interest in the subject-matter of conveyance, or
any part thereof, other than an estate or interest
subject whereto the conveyance is expressly
made, will from time to time and at all times, on
the request of any person to whom the
conveyance is expressed to be made, or of any
person deriving title under him, but, as long as
any right of redemption exists under the
conveyance, at the cost of the person so
conveying, or of those deriving title under him,
and afterwards at the cost of the person making
the request, execute and do all such lawful
assurances and things for further or more
perfectly assuring the subject-matter of
conveyance and every part thereof to the person
to whom the conveyance is made, and to those
deriving title under him, subject as, if so
expressed, and in the manner in which the
conveyance is expressed to be made, as by him
or them or any of them shall be reasonably
required;
(d) In a conveyance by way of mortgage of
On mortgage of
leaseholds by leasehold property, the following further
beneficial owner; covenant by a person who conveys and is
Validity of lease;
expressed to convey as beneficial owner
Payment of rent
and performance (namely):
of covenants.
That the lease or grant creating the term or
estate for which the land is held is, at the time of
conveyance, a good, valid and effectual lease or
grant of the land conveyed and is in full force,
unforfeited and unsurrendered, and in nowise
become void or voidable, and that all the rents
reserved by, and all the covenants, conditions and
agreements contained in, the lease or grant, and on
the part of the lessee or grantee and the persons
deriving title under him to be paid, observed and
performed, have been paid, observed and performed
up to the time of conveyance; and also that the
person so conveying, or the persons deriving title
under him, will at all times, as long as any money
remains on the security of the conveyance, pay,
observe and perform, or cause to be paid, observed
and performed all the rents reserved by, and all the
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 17
covenants, conditions and agreements contained
in, the lease or grant, and on the part of the
lessee or grantee and the persons deriving title
under him to be paid, observed and performed,
and will keep the person to whom the
conveyance is made, and those deriving title
under him, indemnified against all actions,
proceedings, costs, charges, damages, claims,
and demands, if any, to be incurred or sustained
by him or them by reason of the non-payment of
such rent or the non-observance of non-
performance of such covenants, conditions and
agreements, or any of them;
(e) In a conveyance by way of settlement, the On settlement;
following covenant by a person who conveys and For further
assurance
is expressed to convey as settlor (namely) —
limited.
That the person so conveying, and every person
deriving title under him by deed or act or
operation of law in his lifetime subsequent to
that conveyance, or by testamentary disposition
or devolution in law, on his death, will, from
time to time, and at all times, after the date of
that conveyance, at the request and cost of any
person deriving title thereunder, execute and do
all such lawful assurances and things for further
or more perfectly assuring the subject-matter of
the conveyance to the persons to whom the
conveyance is made and those deriving title
under them, subject as, if so expressed, and in
the manner in which the conveyance is
expressed to be made, as by them or any of them
shall be reasonably required;
(f) In any conveyance, the following covenant by On conveyance
every person who conveys and is expressed to by trustee or
mortgagee;
convey as trustee or mortgagee, or as personal
Against
representative of a deceased person, or as incumbrances.
committee of a lunatic so found by inquisition,
or under an order of the court, which covenant
shall be deemed to extend to every such person’s
own acts only (namely) —
That the person so conveying has not executed or
done, or knowingly suffered, or been party or
privy to, any deed or thing, whereby or by means
whereof the subject-matter of the conveyance, or
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 18] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
any part thereof, is or may be impeached,
charged, affected or incumbered in title, estate
or otherwise, or whereby or by means whereof
the person who so conveys is in anywise
hindered from conveying the subject-matter of
the conveyance, or any part thereof, in the
manner in which it is expressed to be conveyed.
(2) Where in a conveyance it is expressed that by
direction of a person expressed to direct as beneficial
owner another person conveys, then, within this section,
the person giving the direction, whether he conveys and is
expressed to convey as beneficial owner or not, shall be
deemed to convey and to be expressed to convey as
beneficial owner the subject-matter so conveyed by his
direction; and a covenant on his part shall be implied
accordingly.
(3) Where a wife conveys and is expressed to
convey as beneficial owner, and the husband also conveys
and is expressed to convey as beneficial owner, then,
within this section, the wife shall be deemed to convey and
to be expressed to convey by direction of the husband, as
beneficial owner; and, in addition to the covenant implied
on the part of the wife, there shall also be implied, first, a
covenant on the part of the husband as the person giving
that direction, and secondly, a covenant on the part of the
husband in the same terms as the covenant implied on the
part of the wife.
(4) Where in a conveyance a person conveying is
not expressed to convey as beneficial owner, or as settlor,
or as trustee, or as mortgagee, or as personal representative
of a deceased person, or as committee of a lunatic so found
by inquisition, or under an order of the court, or by
direction of a person as beneficial owner, no covenant on
the part of the person conveying shall be, by virtue of this
section, implied in the conveyance.
(5) The benefit of a covenant implied as aforesaid
shall be annexed and incident to, and shall go with, the
estate or interest of the implied covenantee, and shall be
capable of being enforced by every person in whom that
estate or interest is, for the whole or any part thereof, from
time to time vested.
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 19
(6) A covenant implied as aforesaid may be varied
or extended by deed, and, as so varied or extended, shall,
as far as may be, operate in the like manner, and with all
the like incidents, effects and consequences, as if such
variations or extensions were directed in this section to be
implied.
(7) This section applies only to conveyances made
after the commencement of this Act.
Execution of Purchase Deed
8. (1) On a sale, the purchaser shall not be entitled Rights of
to require that the conveyance to him be executed in his purchaser as to
execution.
presence, or in that of his solicitor, as such; but shall be
entitled to have, at his own cost, the execution of the
conveyance attested by some person appointed by him,
who may, if he thinks fit, be his solicitor.
(2) This section applies only to sales made after the
commencement of this Act.
Production and Safe Custody of Title Deeds
9. (1) Where a person retains possession of Acknowledge-
documents and gives to another an acknowledgement in ment of right to
production and
writing of the right of that other to production of those
undertaking for
documents, and to delivery of copies thereof (in this safe custody of
section called an acknowledgement) that acknowledgement documents.
shall have effect as in this section provided.
(2) An acknowledgement shall bind the documents
to which it relates in the possession or under the control of
the person who retains them, and in the possession or under
the control of every other person having possession or
control thereof from time to time, but shall bind each
individual possessor or person as long only as he has
possession or control thereof; and every person so having
possession or control from time to time shall be bound
specifically to perform the obligations imposed under this
section by an acknowledgement, unless prevented from so
doing by fire or other inevitable accident.
(3) The obligations imposed under this section by an
acknowledgement are to be performed from time to time at
the request in writing of the person to whom an
acknowledgement is given, or of any person, not being a
lessee at a rent, having or claiming any estate, interest or right
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 20] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
through or under that person, or otherwise becoming
through or under that person interested in or affected by the
terms of any document to which the acknowledgement
relates.
(4) The obligations imposed under this section by
an acknowledgement are —
(a) an obligation to produce the documents or any
of them at all reasonable times for the purpose
of inspection, and of comparison with abstracts
or copies thereof, by the person entitled to
request production or by any one by him
authorised in writing; and
(b) an obligation to produce the documents or any
of them at any trial, hearing or examination in
any court, or in the execution of any
commission, or elsewhere in The Bahamas, on
any occasion on which production may properly
be required, for proving or supporting the title or
claim of the person entitled to request
production, or for any other purpose relative to
that title or claim; and
(c) an obligation to deliver to the person entitled to
request the same true copies or extracts, attested
or unattested, of or from the documents or any
of them.
(5) All costs and expenses of or incidental to the
specific performance of any obligation imposed under this
section by an acknowledgement shall be paid by the person
requesting performance.
(6) An acknowledgement shall not confer any right
to damages for loss or destruction of, or injury to, the
documents to which it relates, from whatever cause arising.
(7) Any person claiming to be entitled to the benefit
of an acknowledgement may apply to the court for an order
directing the production of the documents to which it
relates, or any of them, or the delivery of copies of or
extracts from those documents or any of them to him, or
some person on his behalf; and the court may, if it thinks
fit, order production, or production and delivery,
accordingly, and may give directions respecting the time,
place, terms and mode of production or delivery, and may
make such order as it thinks fit respecting the costs of the
application, or any other matter connected with the
application.
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 21
(8) An acknowledgement shall by virtue of this Act
satisfy any liability to give a covenant for production and
delivery of copies of or extracts from documents.
(9) Where a person retains possession of documents
and gives to another an undertaking in writing for safe
custody thereof, that undertaking shall impose on the
person giving it, and on every person having possession or
control of the documents from time to time, but on each
individual possessor or person as long only as he has
possession or control thereof, an obligation to keep the
document safe, whole, uncancelled and undefaced, unless
prevented from so doing by fire or other inevitable
accident.
(10) Any person claiming to be entitled to the benefit
of such an undertaking may apply to the court to assess
damages for any loss, destruction of, or injury to the
documents or any of them, and the court may, if it thinks
fit, direct an inquiry respecting the amount of damages, and
order payment thereof by the person liable, and may make
such order as it thinks fit respecting the costs of the
application, or any other matter connected with the
application.
(11) An undertaking for safe custody of documents
shall by virtue of this Act satisfy any liability to give a
covenant for safe custody of documents.
(12) The rights conferred by an acknowledgement or
an undertaking under this section shall be in addition to all
such other rights relative to the production, or inspection,
or the obtaining of copies of documents as are not, by
virtue of this Act, satisfied by the giving of the
acknowledgement or undertaking, and shall have effect
subject to the terms of the acknowledgement or
undertaking, and to any provisions therein contained.
(13) This section applies only if and as far as a
contrary intention is not expressed in the acknowledgement
or undertaking.
(14) This section applies only to an acknowledgement
or undertaking given, or a liability respecting documents
incurred, after the commencement of this Act.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 22] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
PART III
LEASES, FORFEITURES
Rent and benefit 10. (1) Rent reserved by a lease, and the benefit of
of lessee’s every covenant or provision therein contained, having
covenants to run
reference to the subject-matter thereof, and on the lessee’s
with reversion.
part to be observed or performed, and every condition of
re-entry and other condition therein contained, shall be
annexed and incident to and shall go with the reversionary
estate in the land, or in any part thereof, immediately
expectant on the term granted by the lease, notwithstanding
severance of that reversionary estate, and shall be capable
of being recovered, received, enforced and taken advantage
of by the person from time to time entitled, subject to the
term, to the income of the whole or any part, as the case
may require, of the land leased.
(2) This section applies only to leases made after the
commencement of this Act.
Obligation of 11. (1) The obligation of a covenant entered into by
lessor’s a lessor with reference to the subject-matter of the lease
covenants to run
shall, if and as far as the lessor has power to bind the
with reversion.
reversionary estate immediately expectant on the term
granted by the lease, be annexed and incident to and shall
go with that reversionary estate, or the several parts
thereof, notwithstanding severance of that reversionary
estate, and may be taken advantage of and enforced by the
person in whom the term is from time to time vested by
conveyance, devolution in law or otherwise; and, if and as
far as the lessor has power to bind the person from time to
time entitled to that reversionary estate, the obligation
aforesaid may be taken advantage of and enforced against
any person so entitled.
(2) This section applies only to leases made after the
commencement of this Act.
Apportionment 12. (1) Notwithstanding the severance by conveyance,
of conditions on surrender or otherwise, of the reversionary estate in any land
severance.
comprised in a lease, and notwithstanding the avoidance or cesser
in any other manner of the term granted by a lease as to part only
of the land comprised therein, every condition or right of re-entry,
and every other condition, contained in the lease, shall be
apportioned, and shall remain annexed to the several parts of the
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 23
reversionary estate as severed, and shall be in force with
respect to the terms whereon each severed part is
reversionary, or the term in any land which has not been
surrendered, or as to which the term has not been avoided
or has not otherwise ceased, in like manner as if the land
comprised in each severed part, or the land as to which the
term remains subsisting, as the case may be, had alone
originally been comprised in the lease.
(2) This section applies only to leases made after the
commencement of this Act.
13. (1) On a contract to grant a lease for a term of On sub-demise
years to be derived out of a leasehold interest, with a title to leasehold
reversion not to
leasehold reversion, the intended lessee shall not have the
be required.
right to call for the title to that reversion.
(2) This section applies only if and as far as a
contrary intention is not expressed in the contract, and shall
have effect subject to the terms of the contract and to the
provisions therein contained.
(3) This section applies only to contracts made after
the commencement of this Act.
14. (1) Where a lease is made under a power Contract for
contained in a settlement, will, Act or other instrument, any lease not part of
title to lease.
preliminary contract for or relating to the lease shall not,
for the purpose of the deduction of title to an intended
assign, form part of the title, or evidence of the title, to the
lease.
(2) This section applies to leases made either before
or after the commencement of this Act.
15. In all leases containing a covenant, condition or No fine to be
agreement against assigning, underletting or parting with exacted for
licence to assign.
the possession, or disposing of the land or property leased
without licence or consent, such covenant, condition or
agreement shall, unless the lease contains an expressed
provision to the contrary, be deemed to be subject to a
proviso to the effect that no fine or sum of money in the
nature of a fine shall be payable for or in respect of such
licence or consent; but this proviso shall not preclude the
right to require the payment of a reasonable sum in respect
of any legal or other expense incurred in relation to such
licence or consent.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 24] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
Forfeiture
Restrictions on 16. (1) A right of re-entry or forfeiture under any
and relief against proviso or stipulation in a lease, for a breach of any
forfeiture of
covenant or condition in the lease, shall not be enforceable,
leases.
by action or otherwise, unless and until the lessor serves on
the lessee a notice specifying the particular breach
complained of and, if the breach is capable of remedy,
requiring the lessee to remedy the breach, and, in any case
requiring the lessee to make compensation in money for
the breach, and the lessee fails, within a reasonable time
thereafter, to remedy the breach, if it is capable of remedy,
and to make reasonable compensation in money, to the
satisfaction of the lessor, for the breach. Lessee may apply
for relief.
(2) Where a lessor is proceeding, by action or
otherwise, to enforce such a right of re-entry or for
forfeiture, the lessee may, in the lessor’s action, if any, or
in any action brought by himself, apply to the court for
relief; and the court may grant or refuse relief, as the court,
having regard to the proceedings and conduct of the parties
under the foregoing provisions of this section, and to all the
other circumstances, thinks fit; and in case of relief, may
grant it on such terms, if any, as to costs, expenses,
damages, compensation, penalty or otherwise, including
the granting of an injunction to restrain any like breach in
the future, as the court, in the circumstances of each case,
thinks fit.
Cost of waiver (3) A lessor shall be entitled to recover as a debt due
and forfeiture in to him from a lessee, and in addition to damages (if any) all
case of
reasonable costs and expenses properly incurred by the
bankruptcy or
execution. lessor in the employment of a solicitor and surveyor or
valuer, or otherwise, in reference to any breach giving rise
to a right of re-entry or forfeiture which, at the request of
the lessee, is waived by the lessor by writing under his
hand, or from which the lessee is relieved, under the
provisions of this Act.
Power of court to (4) Where a lessor is proceeding by action or
protect otherwise to enforce a right of re-entry or forfeiture under
underlessees on
any covenant, proviso, or stipulation in a lease, the court
forfeiture of
superior leases. may, on application by any person claiming as under-lessee
any estate or interest in the property comprised in the lease
or any part thereof either in the lessor’s action (if any) or in
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 25
any action brought by such person for that purpose, make
an order vesting for the whole term of the lease or any less
term the property comprised in the lease or any part thereof
in any person entitled as under-lessee to any estate or
interest in such property upon such conditions, as to
execution of any deed or other document, payment of rent,
costs, expenses, damages, compensation, giving security or
otherwise, as the court in the circumstances of each case
shall think fit, but in no case shall any such under-lessee be
entitled to require a lease to be granted to him for any
longer term than he had under his original sublease.
(5) For the purposes of this section a lease includes Interpretation.
an original or derivative under-lease, also a grant at a fee-
farm rent, or securing a rent by condition; and a lessee
includes an original or derivative under-lessee, and the
heirs, executors, administrators and assigns of a lessee, also
a grantee under such a grant as aforesaid, his heirs and
assigns; and a lessor includes an original or derivative
under-lessor, and the heirs, executors, administrators and
assigns of a lessor, also a grantor as aforesaid, and his heirs
and assigns.
(6) This section applies although the proviso or Application of
stipulation under which the right of re-entry or forfeiture section.
accrues is inserted in the lease in pursuance of the
directions of any Act.
(7) For the purposes of this section a lease limited to
continue as long only as the lessee abstains from
committing a breach of covenant shall be and take effect as
a lease to continue for any longer term for which it could
subsist, but determinable by a proviso for re-entry on such
a breach.
(8) This section does not extend to a condition for 43 of 1961, s. 2.
forfeiture on the bankruptcy of the lessee, or on the taking
in execution of the lessee’s interest.
(9) This section shall not affect the law relating to
re-entry or forfeiture or relief in case of non-payment of
rent.
(10) This section applies to leases made either before
or after the commencement of this Act, and shall have
effect notwithstanding any stipulation to the contrary.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 26] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
PART IV
MORTGAGES
Obligation on 17. (1) Where a mortgagor is entitled to redeem he
mortgagee to shall, by virtue of this Act, have power to require the
transfer instead
mortgagee, instead of re-conveying, and on the terms on
of re-conveying.
which he would be bound to re-convey, to assign the
mortgage debt and convey the mortgaged property to any
third persons, as the mortgagor directs; and the mortgagee
shall, by virtue of this Act, be bound to assign and convey
accordingly. Re-conveyance on mortgage.
(2) The right given by this section to a mortgagor
shall belong to and be capable of being enforced by each
incumbrancer, or by the mortgagor, notwithstanding any
intermediate incumbrance; but a requisition of an
incumbrancer shall prevail over a requisition of the
mortgagor, and, as between incumbrancers, a requisition of
a prior incumbrancer shall prevail over a requisition of a
subsequent incumbrancer.
Application of (3) This section does not apply in the case of a
section. mortgagee being or having been in possession.
(4) This section applies to mortgages made either
before or after the commencement of this Act, and shall
have effect notwithstanding any stipulation to the contrary.
Power for 18. (1) A mortgagor, as long as his right to redeem
mortgagor to subsists, shall, by virtue of this Act, be entitled from time
inspect title
to time, at reasonable times, on his request, and at his own
deeds.
cost, and on payment of the mortgagee’s costs and
expenses in this behalf, to inspect and make copies or
abstracts of or extracts from the documents of title relating
to the mortgaged property in the custody or power of the
mortgagee.
(2) This section applies only to mortgages made
after the commencement of this Act, and shall have effect
notwithstanding any stipulation to the contrary.
Restriction on 19. (1) A mortgagor, seeking to redeem any one
consolidation of mortgage, shall, by virtue of this Act, be entitled to do so,
mortgages.
without paying any money due under any separate
mortgage made by him, or by any person through whom he
claims, on property other than that comprised in the
mortgage which he seeks to redeem.
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 27
(2) This section applies only if and as far as a
contrary intention is not expressed in the mortgage deeds
or one of them.
(3) This section applies only where the mortgages
or one of them are or is made after the commencement of
this Act.
Leases by Mortgagors and Mortgagees
20. (1) A mortgagor of land while in possession Leasing powers
shall, as against every incumbrancer, have by virtue of this of mortgagor and
mortgagee in
Act, power to make from time to time any such lease of the
possession.
mortgaged land, or any part thereof, as is in this section
described and authorised.
(2) A mortgagee of land while in possession shall,
as against all prior incumbrancers, if any, and as against
the mortgagor, have, by virtue of this Act, power to make
from time to time any such lease aforesaid.
(3) The leases which this section authorises are —
(a) an agricultural or occupational lease for any
term not exceeding twenty-one years; and
(b) a building lease for any term not exceeding
ninety-nine years.
(4) Every person making a lease under this section
may execute and do all assurances and things necessary or
proper in that behalf.
(5) Every such lease shall be made to take effect in
possession not later than twelve months after its date.
(6) Every such lease shall reserve the best rent that
can reasonably be obtained, regard being had to the
circumstances of the case, but without any fine being
taken.
(7) Every such lease shall contain a covenant by the
lessee for payment of the rent, and a condition of re-entry
on the rent not being paid within a time therein specified
not exceeding thirty days.
(8) A counterpart of every such lease shall be
executed by the lessee and delivered to the lessor, of which
execution and delivery the execution of the lease by the
lessor shall, in favour of the lessee and all persons deriving
title under him, be sufficient evidence.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 28] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
(9) Every such building lease shall be made in
consideration of the lessee, or some person by whose
direction the lease is granted, having erected, or agreeing to
erect within not more than five years from the date of the
lease, buildings, new or additional, or having improved or
repaired buildings, or agreeing to improve or repair
buildings within that time, or having executed, or agreeing
to execute, within that time, on the land leased, an
improvement for or in connection with building purposes.
(10) In any such building lease a nominal or other
rent less than the rent ultimately payable may be made
payable for the first five years, or any less part of the term.
(11) In case of a lease by the mortgagor, he shall,
within one month after making the lease, deliver to the
mortgagee, or, where there are more than one, to the
mortgagee first in priority, a counterpart of the lease duly
executed by the lessee; but the lessee shall not be
concerned to see that this provision is complied with.
(12) A contract to make or accept a lease under this
section may be enforced by or against every person on
whom the lease if granted would be binding.
(13) This section applies only if and as far as a
contrary intention is not expressed by the mortgagor and
mortgagee in the mortgage deed, or otherwise in writing,
and shall have effect subject to the terms of the mortgage
deed or of any such writing and to the provisions therein
contained.
(14) Nothing in this Act shall prevent the mortgage
deed from reserving to or conferring on the mortgagor or
the mortgagee, or both, any further or other powers of
leasing or having reference to leasing; and any further or
other powers so reserved or conferred shall be exercisable,
as far as may be, as if they were conferred by this Act, and
with all the like incidents, effects and consequences, unless
a contrary intention is expressed in the mortgage deed.
(15) Nothing in this Act shall be construed to enable
a mortgagor or mortgagee to make a lease for any longer
term or on any other conditions than such as could have
been granted or imposed by the mortgagor, with the
concurrence of all the incumbrancers, if this Act had not
been passed.
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 29
(16) This section applies only in case of a mortgage
made after the commencement of this Act; but the
provisions thereof, or any of them, may, by agreement in
writing made after the commencement of this Act, between
mortgagor and mortgagee, be applied to a mortgage made
before the commencement of this Act, so, nevertheless,
that any such agreement shall not prejudicially affect any
right or interest of any mortgagee not joining or adopting
the agreement.
(17) The provisions of this section referring to a lease
shall be construed to extend and apply, as far as
circumstances admit, to any letting, and to an agreement,
whether in writing or not, for leasing or letting.
Sale, Insurance, Receiver, Timber
21. (1) A mortgagee, where the mortgage is made by
Powers incident
deed, shall, by virtue of this Act, have the following powers, to estate or
to the like extent as if they had been in terms conferred by the interest of
mortgagee.
mortgage deed, but not further (namely) —
(a) a power, when the mortgage money has become
Sale.
due, to sell, or to concur with any other person
in selling, the mortgaged property, or any part
thereof, either subject to prior charges, or not,
and either together or in lots, by public auction
or by private contract, subject to such conditions
respecting title, or evidence of title, or other
matter, as he (the mortgagee) thinks fit, with
power to vary any contract for sale, and to buy
in at an auction, or to rescind any contract for
sale, and to resell, without being answerable for
any loss occasioned thereby;
(b) a power, at any time after the date of the
Insurance.
mortgage deed, to insure and keep insured
against loss or damage by fire any building, or
any effects or property of an insurable nature,
whether affixed to the freehold or not, being or
forming part of the mortgaged property, and the
premiums paid for any such insurance shall be a
charge on the mortgaged property, in addition to
the mortgage money, and with the same priority,
and with interest at the same rate, as the
mortgage money;
LRO 1/2008 STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 30] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
(c) a power, when the mortgage money has become
Receiver.
due, to appoint a receiver of the income of the
mortgaged property, or of any part thereof;
Timber. (d) a power, while the mortgagee is in possession, to
cut and sell timber and other trees ripe for
cutting, and not planted or left standing for
shelter or ornament, or to contract for any such
cutting and sale, to be completed within any
time not exceeding twelve months from the
making of the contract:
Provided that the power hereby given shall
not include the power to cut or sell any fruit
bearing trees.
(2) The provisions of this Act relating to the
foregoing powers, comprised either in this section, or in
any subsequent section regulating the exercise of those
powers, may be varied or extended by the mortgage deed,
and, as so varied or extended, shall, as far as may be,
operate in the like manner and with all the like incidents,
effects and consequences as if such variations or
extensions were contained in this Act.
(3) This section applies only if and as far as a
contrary intention is not expressed in the mortgage deed,
and shall have effect subject to the terms of the mortgage
deed and to the provisions therein contained.
(4) This section applies only where the mortgage
deed is executed after the commencement of this Act.
22. A mortgagee shall not exercise the power of sale
Regulation of
exercise of power conferred by this Act, unless and until —
of sale.
(1) notice requiring payment of the mortgage money
has been served on the mortgagor or one of
several mortgagors, and default has been made
in payment of the mortgage money, or of part
thereof, for three months after such service; or
(2) some interest under the mortgage is in arrear and
unpaid for two months after becoming due; or
(3) there has been a breach of some provision
contained in the mortgage deed or in this Act,
and on the part of the mortgagor, or of some
person concurring in making the mortgage, to be
observed or performed, other than and besides a
covenant for payment of the mortgage money or
interest thereon.
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS LRO 1/2008
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 31
23. (1) A mortgagee exercising the power of sale Conveyance,
conferred by this Act shall have power, by deed, to convey receipt, etc., on
sale.
the property sold, for such estate and interest therein as is
the subject of the mortgage, freed from all estates, interests
and rights to which the mortgage has priority, but subject
to all estates, interests and rights which have priority to the
mortgage.
(2) Where a conveyance is made in professed
exercise of the power of sale conferred by this Act, the title
of the purchaser shall not be impeachable on the ground
that no case had arisen to authorise the sale, or that due
notice was not given, or that the power was otherwise
improperly or irregularly exercised; but any person
damnified by an unauthorised, or improper, or irregular
exercise of the power shall have his remedy in damages
against the person exercising the power.
(3) The money which is received by the mortgagee,
arising from the sale, after discharge of prior incumbrances
to which the sale is not made subject, if any, or after
payment into court under this Act of a sum to meet any
prior incumbrance, shall be held by him in trust to be
applied by him, first, in payment of all costs, charges and
expenses, properly incurred by him, as incident to the sale
or any attempted sale, or otherwise; and secondly, in
discharge of the mortgage money, interest and costs, and
other money, if any, due under the mortgage; and the
residue of the money so received shall be paid to the
person entitled to the mortgaged property, or authorised to
give receipts for the proceeds of the sale thereof.
(4) The power of sale conferred by this Act may be
exercised by any person for the time being entitled to
receive and give a discharge for the mortgage money.
(5) The power of sale conferred by this Act shall not
affect the right of foreclosure.
(6) The mortgagee, his executors, administrators or
assigns, shall not be answerable for any involuntary loss
happening in or about the exercise or execution of the
power of sale conferred by this Act or of any trust
connected therewith.
(7) At any time after the power of sale conferred by
this Act has become exercisable, the person entitled to
exercise the same may demand and recover from any
person, other than a person having in the mortgaged
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 32] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
property an estate, interest or right in priority to the
mortgage, all the deeds and documents relating to the
property, or to the title thereto, which a purchaser under the
power of sale would be entitled to demand and recover
from him.
Mortgagee’s 24. (1) The receipt in writing of a mortgagee shall
receipts, be a sufficient discharge for any money arising under the
discharges, etc.
power of sale conferred by this Act, or for any money or
securities comprised in his mortgage, or arising thereunder;
and a person paying or transferring the same to the
mortgagee shall not be concerned to inquire whether any
money remains due under the mortgage.
(2) Money received by a mortgagee under his
mortgage or from the proceeds of securities comprised in
his mortgage shall be applied in like manner as in this Act
directed respecting money received by him arising from a
sale under the power of sale conferred by this Act; but with
this variation, that the costs, charges and expenses payable
shall include the costs, charges and expenses properly
incurred of recovering and receiving the money or
securities, and of conversion of securities into money,
instead of those incident to sale.
Amount and 25. (1) The amount of an insurance effected by a
application of mortgagee against loss or damage by fire under the power
insurance money.
in that behalf conferred by this Act shall not exceed the
amount specified in the mortgage deed, or, if no amount is
therein specified, then shall not exceed two third parts of
the amount that would be required, in case of total
destruction, to restore the property insured.
(2) An insurance shall not, under the power
conferred by this Act, be effected by a mortgagee in any of
the following cases (namely) —
(a) where there is a declaration in the mortgage
deed that no insurance is required;
(b) where an insurance is kept up by or on behalf of
the mortgagor in accordance with the mortgage
deed;
(c) where the mortgage deed contains no stipulation
respecting insurance, and an insurance is kept up
by or on behalf of the mortgagor, to the amount
in which the mortgagee is by this Act authorised
to insure.
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 33
(3) All money received on an insurance effected
under the mortgage deed or under this Act shall, if the
mortgagee so requires, be applied by the mortgagor in
making good the loss or damage in respect of which the
money is received.
(4) Without prejudice to any obligation to the
contrary imposed by law, or by special contract, a
mortgagee may require that all money received on an
insurance be applied in or towards discharge of the money
due under his mortgage.
26. (1) A mortgagee entitled to appoint a receiver Appointment,
under the power in that behalf conferred by this Act shall powers,
remuneration
not appoint a receiver until he has become entitled to
and duties of
exercise the power of sale conferred by this Act, but may receiver.
then, by writing under his hand, appoint such person as he
thinks fit to be receiver.
(2) The receiver shall be deemed to be the agent of
the mortgagor; and the mortgagor shall be solely
responsible for the receiver’s acts or defaults, unless the
mortgage deed otherwise provides.
(3) The receiver shall have power to demand and
recover all the income of the property of which he is
appointed receiver, by action, distress or otherwise, in the
name either of the mortgagor or of the mortgagee, to the
full extent of the estate or interest which the mortgagor
could dispose of, and to give effectual receipts,
accordingly, for the same.
(4) A person paying money to the receiver shall not
be concerned to inquire whether any case has happened to
authorise the receiver to act.
(5) The receiver may be removed, and a new
receiver may be appointed, from time to time, by the
mortgagee by writing under his hand.
(6) The receiver shall be entitled to retain out of any
money received by him, for his remuneration, and in
satisfaction of all costs, charges and expenses incurred by
him as receiver, a commission at such rate, not exceeding
five per centum on the gross amount of all money received,
as is specified in his appointment, and if no rate is so
specified, then at the rate of five per centum on that gross
amount, or at such higher rate as the court thinks fit to
allow, on application made by him for that purpose.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 34] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
(7) The receiver shall, if so directed in writing by
the mortgagee, insure and keep insured against loss or
damage by fire, out of the moneys received by him, any
building, effects or property comprised in the mortgage,
whether affixed to the freehold or not, being of an
insurable nature.
(8) The receiver shall apply all money received by
him as follows (namely) —
(a) in discharge of all rents, taxes, rates and
outgoings whatever affecting the mortgaged
property; and
(b) in keeping down all annual sums or other
payments, and the interest on all principal sums,
having priority to the mortgage in right whereof
he is receiver; and
(c) in payment of his commission, and of the
premiums on fire, life or other insurances, if
any, properly payable under the mortgage deed
or under this Act, and the cost of executing
necessary or proper repairs directed in writing
by the mortgagee; and
(d) in payment of the interest accruing due in
respect of any principal money due under the
mortgage,
and shall pay the residue of the money received by him to
the person who, but for the possession of the receiver,
would have been entitled to receive the income of the
mortgaged property, or who is otherwise entitled to that
property.
Action respecting Mortgage
Sale of 27. (1) Any person entitled to redeem mortgaged
mortgaged property may have a judgment or order for sale instead of
property in
for redemption in an action brought by him either for
action for
foreclosure or redemption alone, or for sale or redemption, in the
redemption. alternative.
(2) In any action, whether for foreclosure, or for
redemption, or for sale, or for the raising and payment in
any manner of mortgage money, the court, on the request
of the mortgagee, or of any person interested either in the
mortgage money or in the right of redemption, and
notwithstanding the dissent of any other person, and
notwithstanding that the mortgagee or any person so
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 35
interested does not appear in the action, and without
allowing any time for redemption or for payment of any
mortgage money, may, if it thinks fit, direct a sale of the
mortgaged property, on such terms as it thinks fit,
including, if it thinks fit, the deposit in court of a
reasonable sum fixed by the court, to meet the expenses of
sale and to secure performance of the terms.
(3) But, in an action brought by a person interested
in the right of redemption and seeking a sale, the court
may, on the application of any defendant, direct the
plaintiff to give such security for costs as the court thinks
fit, and may give the conduct of the sale to any defendant,
and may give such directions as it thinks fit respecting the
costs of the defendants or any of them.
(4) In any case within this section the court may, if
it thinks fit, direct a sale without previously determining
the priorities of incumbrances.
(5) This section applies to actions brought either
before or after the commencement of this Act.
PART V
STATUTORY MORTGAGE
28. (1) A mortgage of freehold or leasehold land Form of
may be made by a deed expressed to be made by way of statutory
mortgage in
statutory mortgage, being in the form given in Part 1 of the
Schedule.
First Schedule, with such variations and additions, if any, First Schedule.
as circumstances may require, and the provisions of this
section shall apply thereto.
(2) There shall be deemed to be included, and there
shall by virtue of this Act be implied, in the mortgage deed —
(a) covenants with the mortgagee by the person
expressed therein to convey as mortgagor to the
effect following (namely) —
(i) that the mortgagor will, on the stated day,
pay to the mortgagee the stated mortgage
money, with interest thereon in the
meantime, at the stated rate, and will
thereafter, if and as long as the mortgage
money or any part thereof remains unpaid,
pay to the mortgagee interest thereon, or on
the unpaid part thereof, at the stated rate, by
equal half yearly payments, the first thereof
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 36] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
to be made at the end of six months from
the day stated for payment of the mortgage
money; and
(ii) that the mortgagor will pay all rates and
taxes payable in respect of the mortgaged
property, before the latter becomes liable
to forfeiture or sale under any Act relating
to a tax on real property, or house property
tax, and will if called upon so to do by the
mortgagee produce to the latter within ten
days after demand or within such shorter
period as may exist before the property
becomes liable as aforesaid, a receipt for
rates or taxes;
(b) a proviso to the effect following (namely) —
That if the mortgagor, on the stated day,
pays to the mortgagee the stated mortgage
money, with interest thereon in the meantime, at
the stated rate, the mortgagee at any time
thereafter, at the request and cost of the
mortgagor, shall re-convey the mortgaged
property to the mortgagor, or as he shall direct.
Forms of 29. (1) A transfer of statutory mortgage may be
statutory transfer made by a deed expressed to be made by way of statutory
of mortgage.
transfer of mortgage, being in such one of the three forms
(A) and (B) and (C) given in Part 2 of the First Schedule as
First Schedule. may be appropriate to the case, with such variations and
additions, if any, as circumstances may require, and the
provisions of this section shall apply thereto.
(2) In whichever of those three forms the deed of
transfer is made, it shall have effect as follows (namely) —
(a) there shall become vested in the person to whom
the benefit of the mortgage is expressed to be
transferred, who, with his executors,
administrators and assigns, is hereafter in this
section designated the transferee, the right to
demand, sue for, recover and give receipts for
the mortgage money, or the unpaid part thereof,
and the interest then due, if any, and thenceforth
to become due, thereon, and the benefit of all
securities for the same, and the benefit of and
the right to sue on all covenants with the
mortgagee, and the right to exercise all powers
of the mortgagee;
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 37
(b) all the estate and interest, subject to redemption,
of the mortgagee in the mortgaged land shall
vest in the transferee, subject to redemption.
(3) If the deed of transfer is made in the form (B),
there shall also be deemed to be included, and there shall
by virtue of this Act be implied therein, a covenant with
the transferee by the person expressed to join therein as
covenantor to the effect following (namely) —
That the covenantor will, on the next of the days by
the mortgage deed fixed for payment of interest, pay to the
transferee the stated mortgage money, or so much thereof
as then remains unpaid, with interest thereon, or on the
unpaid part thereof, in the meantime, at the rate stated in
the mortgage deed; and will thereafter, as long as the
mortgage money, or any part thereof, remains unpaid, pay
to the transferee interest on that sum, or the unpaid part
thereof, at the same rate, on the successive days by the
mortgage deed fixed for payment of interest.
(4) If the deed of transfer is made in the form (C), it
shall, by virtue of this Act, operate not only as a statutory
transfer of mortgage, but also a statutory mortgage, and the
provisions of this section shall have effect in relation
thereto, accordingly.
30. In a deed of statutory mortgage, or of statutory Implied
transfer of mortgage, where more persons than one are covenants, joint
and several.
expressed to convey as mortgagors, or to join as
covenantors, the implied covenant on their part shall be
deemed to be a joint and several covenant by them; and
where there are more mortgagees or more transferees than
one the implied covenant with them shall be deemed to be
a covenant with them jointly, unless the amount secured is
expressed to be secured to them in shares or distinct sums,
in which latter case the implied covenant with them shall
be deemed to be a covenant with each severally in respect
of the share or distinct sum secured to him.
31. A re-conveyance of a statutory mortgage may be Form of
made by a deed expressed to be made by way of statutory reconveyance of
statutory
re-conveyance of mortgage, being in the form given in Part
mortgage.
3 of the First Schedule, with such variations and additions, First Schedule.
if any, as circumstances may require.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 38] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
Effect of 32. (1) Whenever the person entitled to receive
endorsement by payment of any money secured by mortgage upon any
mortgagee on
property shall endorse upon the deed of mortgage or upon
payment of
mortgage debt. any transfer thereof or shall attach to the deed of mortgage
26 of 1956, s. 2; or to any transfer thereof an acknowledgement under his
58 of 1959, s. 2. hand, attested by one witness, of the payment of the
mortgage debt in full, or any less sum in satisfaction
thereof, such acknowledgement shall vacate the mortgage
and operate as a discharge of the mortgage debt and shall
vest the estate of and in the property therein comprised in
the person for the time being entitled to the equity of
redemption without any re-conveyance; and if the said
mortgage has been recorded in the Registry of Records,
the Registrar-General shall on production of such
acknowledgement, verified by the oath of any person,
record by affixing, stamping or punching a suitable device
on the first folio of the record of the said mortgage the fact
that such mortgage is satisfied, and shall grant a certificate
under his hand and seal, which certificate shall also be
recorded and shall be received in evidence in all courts
and proceedings without any further proof, and which
entry shall have the effect of clearing the register of record
of such mortgage:
24 of 1965, s. 2. Provided that whenever the person entitled to receive
payment of any money secured by any such mortgage is a
company or corporation (including a foreign company
registered under the Companies Act) such
Ch. 308.
acknowledgement may be signed by any person purporting
to be a director, officer, or duly appointed attorney of such
company or corporation in the presence of some other
person who shall sign such acknowledgement as a witness
to the due execution thereof and the requirements of this
section as to verification shall be satisfied by the oath of
such director, officer or attorney or by the oath of such
witness.
(2) The proviso to subsection (1) shall apply to all
24 of 1965, s. 3.
acknowledgements made and done either before or after
the 18th day of May, 19651:
Provided that notwithstanding anything contained in
this Act, an acknowledgement endorsed upon a deed of
mortgage or upon any transfer thereof before the 18th day
of May, 1965, this Act shall be deemed to have been duly
1 Date of commencement of Act No. 24 of 1965.
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 39
executed in the case of a foreign company registered under
the Companies Act if it bears a seal purporting to be a seal Ch. 308.
of the company or of any branch or office thereof within
The Bahamas used under the authority of the directors or
other managing body or local manager thereof.
PART VI
TRUST AND MORTGAGE ESTATES ON DEATH 5 of 2002, s. 37.
33. ......1
Repealed by Act
5 of 2002
PART VII
5 of 2002, s. 37.
MARRIED WOMEN
34. (1) Notwithstanding that a married woman is Power of court to
restrained from anticipation, the court may, if it thinks fit, bind interest of
married woman.
where it appears to the court to be for her benefit, by
judgment or order, with her consent, bind her interest in
any property.
(2) This section applies only to judgments or orders
made after the commencement of this Act.
35. (1) A married woman, whether an infant or not, Power of
shall by virtue of this Act have power, as if she were attorney of
married woman.
unmarried and of full age, by deed, to appoint an attorney
on her behalf for the purpose of executing any deed or
doing any other act which she might herself execute or do;
and the provisions of this Act relating to instruments
creating powers of attorney shall apply thereto.
(2) This section applies to conveyances made before
or after the commencement of this Act.
1 Before its repeal by Act 5 of 2002 (Administration of Estates Act, now Ch. 108 in the
Rev. Ed. 2000), section 33 provided as follows —
(1) “Where an estate or interest of inheritance or limited to the heir as special occupant,
in any tenements or hereditaments, corporeal or incorporeal, is vested on any trust, or by
way of mortgage, in any person solely, the same shall, on his death, notwithstanding any
testamentary disposition, devolve to and become vested in his personal representatives or
representative from time to time in like manner as if the same were a chattel real vesting
in them or in him; and accordingly all the like powers, for one only of several joint
personal representatives, as well as for a single personal representative, and for all the
personal representatives together, to dispose of and otherwise deal with the same, shall
belong to the deceased’s personal representatives or representatives from time to time,
with all the like incidents, but subject to all the like rights, equities and obligations, as if
the same were a chattel real vesting in them or him; and for the purposes of this section,
the personal representatives, for the time being, of the deceased, shall be deemed in law
his heirs and assigns, within the meaning of all trusts and powers.
(2) This section applies only in cases of death after the commencement of this Act.”
LRO 1/2008 STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 40] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
PART VIII
CONSTRUCTION AND EFFECT OF DEEDS AND
OTHER INSTRUMENTS
Use of word 36. (1) It is hereby declared that the use of the word
“grant” grant is not necessary in order to convey tenements or
unnecessary.
hereditaments, corporeal or incorporeal.
(2) This section applies to conveyances made before
or after the commencement of this Act.
Conveyance by a 37. (1) Freehold land, or a thing in action, may be
person to conveyed by a person to himself jointly with another
himself, etc.
person, by the like means by which it might be conveyed
by him to another person; and may, in like manner, be
conveyed by a husband to his wife, and by a wife to her
husband, alone or jointly with another person.
(2) This section applies only to conveyances made
after the commencement of this Act.
38. (1) In a deed it shall be sufficient, in the
Words of
limitation in fee limitation of an estate in fee simple to an individual, to use
or in tail. the words in fee simple, without the word heirs, and in the
4 of 1961, s. 2.
limitation of an estate in fee simple to a company, to use
the words in fee simple without the word assigns; and in
the limitation of an estate in fee simple to a corporation
sole, to use the words in fee simple without the word
successors; and in the limitation of an estate in tail, to use
the words in tail without the words heirs of the body; and
in the limitation of an estate in tail male or in tail female, to
use the words in tail male, or in tail female, as the case
requires, without the words heirs male of the body or heirs
female of the body.
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS LRO 1/2008
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 41
(2) This section applies only to deeds executed after
the commencement of this Act.
39. (1) A person to whom any power, whether
Powers simply
coupled with an interest or not, is given may by deed collateral.
release, or contract not to exercise, the power.
(2) This section applies to powers created by
instruments coming into operation either before or after the
commencement of this Act.
40. (1) Any estate or interest in land, whether in Conveyance by
possession, reversion or remainder, may be conveyed by a simple deed.
simple deed, whether such deed operates under the Statute
of Uses or not.
(2) This section applies to deeds executed either
before or after the commencement of this Act.
41. (1) A deed expressed to be supplemental to a Construction of
previous deed, or directed to be read as an annex thereto, supplemental or
annexed deed.
shall, as far as may be, be read and have effect as if the
deed so expressed or directed were made by way of
endorsement on the previous deed, or contained a full
recital thereof.
(2) This section applies to deeds executed either
before or after the commencement of this Act.
42. (1) A receipt for consideration money or Receipt on deed
securities in the body of a deed shall be sufficient sufficient.
discharge for the same to the person paying or delivering
the same, without any further receipt for the same being
endorsed on the deed.
(2) This section applies only to deeds executed after
the commencement of this Act.
43. (1) A receipt for consideration money or other Receipt in deed
consideration in the body of a deed or endorsed thereon or endorsed,
evidence for
shall, in favour of a subsequent purchaser, not having
subsequent
notice that the money or other consideration thereby purchaser.
acknowledged to be received was not in fact paid or given,
wholly or in part, be sufficient evidence of the payment or
giving of the whole amount thereof.
(2) This section applies only to deeds executed after
the commencement of this Act.
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 42] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
Receipt in deed 44. (1) Where a solicitor produces a deed, having in
or endorsed, the body thereof or endorsed thereon a receipt for
authority for
consideration money or other consideration, the deed being
payment to
solicitor. executed, or the endorsed receipt being signed, by the
person entitled to give a receipt for that consideration, the
deed shall be sufficient authority to the person liable to pay
or give the same for his paying or giving the same to the
solicitor, without the solicitor producing any separate or
other direction or authority in that behalf from the person
who executed or signed the deed or receipt.
(2) This section applies only in cases where
consideration is to be paid or given after the
commencement of this Act.
Sufficiency of 45. Deeds in the form of and using the expressions
forms. in the forms given in the Second Schedule, or in the like
Second Schedule. form or using expressions to the like effect, shall, as
regards form and expression in relation to the provisions of
this Act, be sufficient.
Covenants to 46. (1) A covenant relating to land of inheritance, or
extend to heirs, devolving on the heir as special occupant, shall be deemed
etc. to be made with the covenantee, his heirs and assigns, and
shall have effect as if heirs and assigns were expressed.
(2) A covenant relating to land not of inheritance, or
not devolving on the heir as special occupant, shall be
deemed to be made with the covenantee, his executors,
administrators and assigns, and shall have effect as if
executors, administrators and assigns were expressed.
(3) This section applies only to covenants made
after the commencement of this Act.
Covenants to 47. (1) A covenant and a contract under seal, and a
bind heirs, etc. bond or obligation under seal, though not expressed to bind
the heirs, shall operate in law to bind the heirs and real
estate, as well as the executors and administrators and
personal estate, of the person making the same, as if heirs
were expressed.
(2) This section extends to a covenant implied by
virtue of this Act.
(3) This section applies only if and as far as a
contrary intention is not expressed in the covenant,
contract, bond or obligation, and shall have effect subject
to the terms of the covenant, contract, bond or obligation,
and to the provisions therein contained.
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 43
(4) This section applies only to a covenant, contract,
bond or obligation made or implied after the
commencement of this Act.
48. (1) A covenant and a contract under seal, and a Effect of
bond or obligation under seal, made with two or more covenant with
two or more
jointly, to pay money or to make a conveyance, or to do
jointly.
any other act, to them or for their benefit, shall be deemed
to include, and shall, by virtue of this Act, imply, an
obligation to do the act to, or for the benefit of, the
survivor or survivors of them, and to, or for the benefit of,
any other person to whom the right to sue on the covenant,
contract, bond or obligation devolves.
(2) This section extends to a covenant implied by
virtue of this Act.
(3) This section applies only if and as far as a
contrary intention is not expressed in the covenant,
contract, bond or obligation, and shall have effect subject
to the covenant, contract, bond or obligation, and to the
provisions therein contained.
(4) This section applies only to a covenant, contract,
bond or obligation made or implied after the
commencement of this Act.
49. (1) Where in a mortgage, or an obligation for Effect of advance
payment of money, or a transfer of a mortgage or of such on joint account,
etc.
an obligation, the sum, or any part of the sum, advanced or
owing is expressed to be advanced by or owing to more
persons than one out of money, or as money, belonging to
them on a joint account, or a mortgage, or such an
obligation, or such a transfer is made to more persons than
one, jointly, and not in shares, the mortgage money, or
other money, or money’s worth for the time being due to
those persons on the mortgage or obligation, shall be
deemed to be and remain money or money’s worth
belonging to those persons on a joint account, as between
them and the mortgagor or obligor; and the receipt in
writing of the survivors or last survivor of them, or of the
personal representatives of the last survivor, shall be a
complete discharge for all money or money’s worth for the
time being due, notwithstanding any notice to the payer of
a severance of the joint account.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 44] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
(2) This section applies only if and as far as a
contrary intention is not expressed in the mortgage, or
obligation, or transfer, and shall have effect subject to the
terms of the mortgage, or obligation, or transfer, and to the
provisions therein contained.
(3) This section applies only to a mortgage, or
obligation, or transfer made after the commencement of
this Act.
Grants of 50. (1) A conveyance of freehold land to the use that
easements, etc., any person may have, for an estate or interest not
by way of use.
exceeding in duration the estate conveyed in the land, any
easement, right, liberty or privilege in, or over, or with
respect to that land, or any part thereof, shall operate to
vest in possession in that person that easement, right,
liberty or privilege for the estate or interest expressed to be
limited to him; and he, and the persons deriving title under
him, shall have, use and enjoy the same accordingly.
(2) This section applies only to conveyances made
after the commencement of this Act.
Provision for all 51. (1) Every conveyance shall, by virtue of this
the estate, etc. Act, be effectual to pass all the estate, right, title, interest,
claim and demand which the conveying parties
respectively have, in, to or on the property conveyed, or
expressed or intended so to be, or which they respectively
have power to convey in, to or on the same.
(2) This section applies only if and as far as a
contrary intention is not expressed in the conveyance, and
shall have effect subject to the terms of the conveyance and
to the provisions therein contained.
(3) This section applies only to conveyances made
after the commencement of this Act.
PART IX
NOTICE
Restriction on 52. (1) A purchaser shall not be prejudicially
constructive affected by notice of any instrument, fact or thing unless —
notice.
(a) it is within his own knowledge, or would have
come to his knowledge if such inquiries and
inspections had been made as ought reasonably
to have been made by him; or
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 45
(b) in the same transaction with respect to which a
question of notice to the purchaser arises, it has
come to the knowledge of his counsel, as such,
or of his solicitor, or other agent, as such, or
would have come to the knowledge of his
solicitor, or other agent, as such, if such
inquiries and inspections had been made as
ought reasonably to have been made by the
solicitor or other agent.
(2) This section shall not exempt a purchaser from
any liability under, or any obligation to perform or observe,
any covenant, condition, provision or restriction contained
in any instrument under which his title is derived,
mediately or immediately; and such liability or obligation
may be enforced in the same manner and to the same
extent as if this section had not been enacted.
(3) A purchaser shall not by reason of anything in
this section be affected by notice in any case where he
would not have been so affected if this section had not
been enacted.
(4) This section applies to purchases made either
before or after the commencement of this Act.
PART X
ADOPTION OF ACT
53. (1) The powers given by this Act to any person, Protection of
and the covenants, provisions, stipulations and words solicitor and
trustee adopting
which under this Act are to be deemed included or implied
Act.
in any instrument, or are by this Act made applicable to
any contract for sale or other transaction, are and shall be
deemed in law proper powers, covenants, provisions,
stipulations and words, to be given by or to be contained in
any such instrument, or to be adopted in connection with,
or applied to, any such contract or transaction; and a
solicitor shall not be deemed guilty of neglect or breach of
duty, or become in any way liable, by reason of his
omitting, in good faith, in any such instrument, or in
connection with any such contract or transaction, to
negative the giving, inclusion, implication or application of
any of those powers, covenants, provisions, stipulations or
words, or to insert or apply any others in place thereof, in
any case where the provisions of this Act would allow of
his doing so.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 46] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
(2) But nothing in this Act shall be taken to imply
that the insertion in any such instrument, or the adoption in
connection with, or the application to, any contract or
transaction, of any further or other powers, covenants,
provisions, stipulations or words, is improper.
(3) Where the solicitor is acting for trustees,
executors or other persons in a fiduciary position, those
persons shall also be protected in like manner.
(4) Where such persons are acting without a
solicitor, they shall also be protected in like manner.
PART XI
DISPOSITION OF CROWN LANDS
Minister may 54. (1) Any power that immediately before the 10th
dispose of Crown day of July, 1973, was under section 24 of the Bahama
Lands.
Islands Constitution Order, 1969, vested in the Governor of
the Bahama Islands —
(a) to make grants and dispositions of any lands or
27 of 1973, s. 2.
other immovable property in the said Islands or
any interests in such property that were vested in
Her Majesty or the Governor on behalf of Her
Majesty as the property of the Crown for the
beneficial interest of the said Islands, or
(b) to exercise in relation to such property or
interests any other powers lawfully exercisable
by Her Majesty,
shall be vested in the Minister, so however, that, wherever
the employment of the Public Seal would have been
required under that section, the official seal of the Minister
shall be employed instead.
(2) In this section “Minister” means the Minister
responsible for Crown Lands.
PART XII
MISCELLANEOUS
Regulations 55. (1) Any notice required or authorised by this Act
respecting to be served shall be in writing.
notices.
(2) Any notice required or authorised by this Act to
be served on a lessee or mortgagor shall be sufficient,
although only addressed to the lessee or mortgagor by that
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 47
designation, without his name, or generally to the persons
interested, without any name, and notwithstanding that any
person to be affected by the notice is absent, under
disability, unborn or unascertained.
(3) Any notice required or authorised by this Act to
be served shall be sufficiently served if it is left at the last
known place of abode or business in The Bahamas of the
lessee, lessor, mortgagee, mortgagor or other person to be
served, or, in case of a notice required or authorised to be
served on a lessee or mortgagor, is affixed or left for him
on the land or any house or building comprised in the lease
or mortgage.
(4) Any notice required or authorised by this Act to
be served shall also be sufficiently served, if it is sent by
post in a registered letter addressed to the lessee, lessor,
mortgagee, mortgagor or other person to be served, by
name, at the aforesaid place of abode or business, and if
that letter is not returned through the post office
undelivered; and that service shall be deemed to be made at
the time at which the registered letter would in the ordinary
course be delivered.
(5) This section does not apply to notices served in
proceedings in the court.
56. The Rules Committee under section 75 of the Rules.
Supreme Court Act may make rules for the purpose 46 of 1964, Sch.
Ch. 53.
generally of carrying out the objects of this Act.
57. (1) An order of the court under any statutory or Orders of court
other jurisdiction shall not, as against a purchaser, be conclusive.
invalidated on the ground of want of jurisdiction, or of
want of any concurrence, consent, notice or service
whether the purchaser has notice of any such want or not.
(2) This section applies to all orders made before or
after the commencement of this Act, except any order
which has before the commencement of this Act been set
aside or determined to be invalid on any ground, and
except any order as regards which an action or proceeding
is at the commencement of this Act pending for having it
set aside or determined to be invalid.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 48] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
FIRST SCHEDULE (Section 28)
STATUTORY MORTGAGE
PART 1
Deed of Statutory Mortgage
THIS INDENTURE made by way of statutory mortgage the
....................... day of ..................... 19 ..... between A. of [etc.] of the
one part and M. of [etc.] of the other part
WITNESSETH in consideration of the sum of $ .................
now paid to A. by M. of which sum A. hereby acknowledges the
receipt A. as mortgagor and as beneficial owner hereby conveys to
M. All that [etc.]
To hold to and to the use of M. in fee simple for securing
payment on the ...................... day of ......................... 19 ..... of the
principal sum of $ ........... as the mortgage money with interest
thereon at the rate of [four] per centum per annum.
In witness, etc.
Variations in this and subsequent forms to be made, if required,
for leasehold land, or other matter.
PART 2 (Section 29)
(A)
Deed of Statutory Transfer, Mortgagor not Joining
THIS INDENTURE made by way of statutory transfer of
mortgage the ..................... day of ..................... 19 ..... between M.
of [etc.] of the one part and T. of [etc.] of the other part
supplemental to an indenture made by way of statutory mortgage
dated the ....................... day of ......................... 19 ..... and made
between [etc.]
WITNESSETH that in consideration of the sum of $ ................
now paid to M. by T. being the aggregate amount of $ ..................
mortgage money and $ .................. interest due in respect of the said
mortgage of which sum M. hereby acknowledges the receipt M. as
mortgagee hereby conveys and transfers to T. the benefit of the said
mortgage.
In witness, etc.
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 49
(B)
Deed of Statutory Transfer, a Covenantor Joining
THIS INDENTURE made by way of statutory transfer of
mortgage the ........................ day of ......................... 19 ..... between
A. of [etc.] of the first part B. of [etc.] of the second part and C. of
[etc.] of the third part supplemental to an indenture made by way of
statutory mortgage dated the .................. day of .................... 19 .....
and made between [etc.].
WITNESSETH that in consideration of the sum of $ ................
now paid to A. by C. being the mortgage money due in respect of
the said mortgage no interest being now due and payable thereon of
which sum A. hereby acknowledges the receipt A. as mortgagee
with the concurrence of B. who joins herein as covenantor hereby
conveys and transfers to C. the benefit of the said mortgage.
In witness, etc.
(C)
Statutory Transfer and Statutory Mortgage Combined
THIS INDENTURE made by way of statutory transfer of
mortgage and statutory mortgage the ................. day of ...................
19 ...... between A. of [etc.] of the first part B. of [etc.] of the second
part and C. of [etc.] of the third part supplemental to an indenture
made by way of statutory mortgage dated the .......................... day
of ................. 19 ..... and made between [etc.]
WHEREAS the principal sum of $ ............. only remains due in
respect of the said mortgage as the mortgage money and no interest
is now due and payable thereon
AND WHEREAS B. is seised in fee simple of the land
comprised in the said mortgage subject of that mortgage
NOW THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH that in
consideration of the sum of $ .............. now paid to A. by C. of
which sum A. hereby acknowledges the receipt and B. hereby
acknowledges the payment and receipt as aforesaid* A. as
mortgagee hereby conveys and transfers to C. the benefit of the said
mortgage
AND THIS INDENTURE ALSO WITNESSETH that for the
same consideration A. as mortgagee and according to his estate and
by direction of B. hereby conveys and B. as beneficial owner
hereby conveys and confirms to C. All that [etc.] To hold to and to
the use of C. in fee simple for securing payment on the ..................
day of ............................. 19 ..... of† the sum of $ ...........................
as the mortgage money with interest thereon at the rate of [four] per
centum per annum.
In witness, etc.
[Or, in case of further advance, after aforesaid at 3 insert and
3 Variations as noted above.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 50] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
also in consideration of the further sum of $ ............ now paid by C.
to B. of which sum B. hereby acknowledges the receipt, and after of
at † insert the sums of $ ................ and $ ............... making together
..........................].
***Variations to be made, as required, in case of the deed
being made by endorsement, or in respect of any other thing.
PART 3 (Section 31)
Deed of Statutory Re-conveyance of Mortgage
THIS INDENTURE made by way of statutory re-conveyance
of mortgage the .......................... day of ................................. 19 .....
between C. of [etc.] of the one part and B. of [etc.] of the other part
supplemental to an indenture made by way of statutory transfer of
mortgage dated the .......................... day of ........................... 19 .....
and made between [etc.]
WITNESSETH that in consideration of all principal money and
interest due under that indenture having been paid of which
principal and interest C. hereby acknowledges the receipt C. as
mortgagee hereby conveys to B. all the lands and hereditaments
now vested in C. under the said indenture. To hold to and to the use
of B. in fee simple discharged from all principal money and interest
secured by and from all claims and demands under the said
indenture.
In witness, etc.
*Variations as noted above.
SECOND SCHEDULE (Section 45)
SHORT FORMS OF DEEDS
1 — Mortgage
THIS INDENTURE OF MORTGAGE made the .................
day of .................... 19 ..... between A. of [etc.] of the one part and
B. of [etc.] and C. of [etc.] of the other part WITNESSETH that in
consideration of the sum of $ ........... paid to A. by B. and C. out of
money belonging to them on a joint account of which, sum A.
hereby acknowledges the receipt A. hereby covenants with B. and
C. to pay to them on the ............... day of .............. 19 ....., the sum
of $ ................, with interest thereon in the meantime at the rate of
[four] per centum per annum and also as long after that day as any
principal money remains due under this mortgage to pay to B.
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY [CH.138 – 51
and C. interest thereon at the same rate by equal half-yearly
payments on the ............................... day of .......................................
and the ................................... day of ..........................................
AND THIS INDENTURE ALSO WITNESSETH that for the same
consideration A. as beneficial owner hereby conveys to B. and C.
All that [etc.] To hold to and to the use of B. and C. in fee simple
subject to the proviso for redemption following (namely) that if A.
or any person claiming under him shall on the ..............................
day of .......................................... 19 ..... pay to B. and C. the sum of
$ ................. and interest thereon at the rate aforesaid then B. and C.
or the person claiming under them will at the request and cost of A.
or the persons claiming under him re-convey the premises to A. or
the persons claiming under him AND A. hereby covenants with B.
as follows [here add covenant as to fire insurance or other special
covenant required].
In witness, etc.
2 — Further Charge
THIS INDENTURE made the ................... day of ..................
19 ...... between [the same parties as the foregoing mortgage] and
supplemental to an indenture of mortgage dated the .........................
day of .............................. 19 ...... and made between the same
parties for securing the sum of $ ..... and interest at [four] per
centum per annum on property at [etc.] WITNESSETH that in
consideration of the further sum of $ .............. paid to A. by B. and
C. out of money belonging to them on a joint account [add receipt
and covenant as in the foregoing mortgage] and further that all the
property comprised in the before-mentioned indenture of mortgage
shall stand charged with the payment to B. and C. of the sum of $
............ and the interest thereon hereinbefore covenanted to be paid
as well as the sum of $ .................... and interest secured by the
same indenture.
In witness, etc.
3 — Conveyance on Sale
THIS INDENTURE made the ..................... day of .....................
19 ..... between A. of [etc.] of the first part B. of [etc.] of the second
part and M. [etc.] or the third part WHEREAS by an indenture dated
[etc.] and made between [etc.] the lands hereinafter mentioned were
conveyed by A. to B. and C. in fee simple by way of mortgage for
securing $ ............... and interest and by a supplemental indenture
dated [etc.] and made between the same parties those lands were
charged by A. with the payment to B. and C. of the further sum of
$ ................ and interest thereon AND WHEREAS a principal sum of
$ ................ remains due under the two before-mentioned indentures
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
[Original Service 2001] STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS
CH.138 – 52] CONVEYANCING AND LAW OF PROPERTY
but all interest thereon has been paid as B. and C. hereby
acknowledge NOW THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH that in
consideration of the sum of $ ......... paid by the direction of A. to
B. and C. and of the sum of $ ............. paid to A. those two sums
making together the total sum of $ ............. paid by M. for the
purchase of the fee simple of the lands hereinafter mentioned of
which sum of $ .......... B. and C. hereby acknowledge the receipt
and of which total sum of $ ............. A. hereby acknowledges the
payment and receipt in manner before-mentioned B. and C. as
mortgagees and by the direction of A. as beneficial owner hereby
convey and A. as beneficial owner hereby conveys and confirms
to M. All that [etc.] To hold to and to the use of M. in fee simple
discharged from all money secured by and from all claims under
the before-mentioned indentures [Add, if required, And A.
hereby acknowledges the right of M. to production of the
documents of title mentioned in the Schedule hereto and to
delivery of copies thereof and hereby undertakes for the safe
custody thereof].
In witness, etc.
(The Schedule above referred to.)
[To contain list of documents retained by A.]
4 — Short Form of Conveyance
THIS INDENTURE made the ................... day of ................
19 ..... between A. B. of (hereinafter called the grantor) and C. D.
of (hereinafter called the grantee) WITNESSETH that in
consideration of the sum of $ ............. paid to him by the
grantee, the receipt whereof the grantor hereby acknowledges,
the grantor as beneficial owner hereby conveys to the grantee.
All that [insert boundaries and description of the land conveyed]
To hold to and to the use of the grantee in fee simple. In witness
whereof the parties hereto have hereto set their hands and seals
the day and year first above written.
STATUTE LAW OF THE BAHAMAS [Original Service 2001]
