Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 351
Extraordinary
Federal Republic of Nigeria
Official Gazette
No. 61 Lagos - 29th March, 2022 Vol. 109
Government Notice No. 63
The following is published as supplement to this Gazette :
Act No. Short Title Page
13 Electoral Act, 2022 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. A353-463
Printed and Published by The Federal Government Printer, Lagos, Nigeria
FGP 85/52022/650
Annual Subscription from 1st January, 2022 is Local : N45,000.00 Overseas : N60,500.00 [Surface Mail]
N75,000.00 [Second Class Air Mail]. Present issue N4,000 per copy. Subscribers who wish to obtain Gazette
after 1st January should apply to the Federal Government Printer, Lagos for amended Subscriptions.
A 352 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 353
ELECTORAL ACT, 2022
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
Section :
PART I—ESTABLISHMENT AND FUNCTIONS OF INDEPENDENT NATIONAL
ELECTORAL COMMISSION
1. EstaEstablishment of Independent National Electoral Commission.
2. Functions of the Commission.
3. Establishment of the Independent National Electoral Commission Fund.
4. Expenditure of the Commission.
5. Annual estimates and accounts.
6. Establishment of office in each State, Federal Capital Territory and Local
Government Area.
7. Committees of the Commission.
PART II—STAFF OF THE COMMISSION
8. Secretary and other staff of the Commission.
PART III—NATIONAL REGISTER OF VOTERS AND VOTERS’ REGISTRATION
9. National register of voters and voters’ registration.
10. Continuous registration.
11. Appointment of officers.
12. Qualification for registration.
13. Transfer of registered voters.
14. Demand for information regarding registration.
15. Power to print or issue register of voters.
16. Power to print or issue voters card.
17. Custody of voters’ register.
18. Power to issue replacement permanent voters’ cards.
19. Display of the copies of the voters’ list.
20. Revision officer for hearing of claims.
21. Proprietary rights in the voters’ card.
22. Offences of buying and selling voters’ cards.
23. Offences relating to register of voters.
A 354 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
PART IV—PROCEDURE AT ELECTION
24. Conduct and postponement of election in emergency.
25. Announcement and declaration of election results.
26. Oath of neutrality by election officials.
27. Appointment of other officers for the conduct of registration of voters
and elections.
28. Notice of election.
29. Submission of list of candidates and their affidavits by political parties.
30. Prohibition of double nomination.
31. Withdrawal of candidate.
32. Publication of nomination.
33. Political parties changing candidates.
34. Death of a candidate.
35. Invalidity of multiple nomination.
36. Failure of nomination.
37. Contested election.
38. When poll is required.
39. Uncontested election.
40. Establishment of polling units.
41. Ballot boxes and voting devices.
42. Format of ballot papers.
43. Polling agents.
44. Notice of poll.
45. Hour of poll.
46. Display of ballot boxes.
47. Accreditation of voters and voting.
48. Right to challenge issue of ballot paper.
49. Separate queues for men and women.
50. Conduct of poll by open secret ballot.
51. Over voting.
52. Ballot not to be marked by voter for identification.
53. Accidental destruction or marking of ballot papers.
54. Visually impaired and incapacitated voters.
55. Personal attendance.
56. Voting at appropriate polling unit.
57. Impersonation by applicant to vote.
58. Conduct at polling units.
59. Closing of poll.
60. Counting of votes and forms.
61. Recount.
62. Post-election procedure and collation of election results.
63. Rejection of ballot paper without official mark.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 355
64. Endorsement on rejected ballot paper without official mark.
65. Decision of returning officer on ballot paper.
66. Declaration of result.
67. Equality of votes.
68. Posting of results.
69. Custody of documents.
70. Step by step recording of poll.
71. Result forms to be signed and countersigned.
72. Certificate of return.
73. Forms for use at elections.
74. Access to election documents.
PART V—POLITICAL PARTIES
75. Powers of the Commission to register political parties.
76. Decision of the Commission subject to judicial review.
77. Political parties to be bodies corporate.
78. Contravention of section 227 of the 1999 Constitution.
79. Symbols of political parties.
80. Allocation of symbols.
81. Merger of political parties.
82. Notice of convention, congress.
83. Monitoring of political parties.
84. Nomination of candidates by parties.
85. Offences in relation to finances of a political party.
86. Period to be covered by annual statement.
87. Power to limit contribution to a political party.
88. Limitation on election expenses.
89. Election expenses of political parties.
90. Disclosure by political parties.
91. Conduct at political rallies, and processions.
92. Prohibition of certain conduct at political campaigns.
93. Prohibition of use of force or violence during political campaign.
94. Limitation on political broadcast and campaign by political parties.
95.Campaign for election.
96. Prohibition of broadcast 24 hours preceding or on polling day.
97. Campaign based on religion or tribe.
PART VI—PROCEDURE FOR ELECTION TO AREA COUNCIL
98. Powers of the Commission.
99. Election to offices of Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Councilors.
100. Division of Area Council into registration area.
101. Qualification.
102. Disqualification.
A 356 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
103. Date of Area Council elections and method of voting.
104. Procedure for Area Council elections.
105. Procedure for nomination.
106. Election of Area Council Chairman.
107. Death of Chairman or Vice-Chairman before oath of office.
108. Dissolution of Area Council.
109. Vacation of seat of members.
110. Removal of Chairman or Vice- Chairman.
111. Permanent incapacity of Chairman or Vice-Chairman of an Area Council.
112. Performance of functions of Chairman or Vice-Chairman of an Area
Council.
113. Recall.
PART VII—ELECTORAL OFFENCES
114. Offences in relation to registration.
115. Offences in respect of nomination.
116. Disorderly behavior at political meetings.
117. Improper use of voters cards.
118. Improper use of vehicles.
119. Impersonation and voting when not qualified.
120. Dereliction of duty.
121. Bribery and conspiracy.
122. Requirement of secrecy in voting.
123. Wrongful voting and false statements.
124. Voting by unregistered person.
125. Disorderly conduct at elections.
126. Offences on election day.
127. Undue influence.
128. Threatening.
129. Offences relating to recall.
PART VIII—DETERMINATION OF ELECTION PETITIONS ARISING FROM ELECTIONS
130. Proceedings to question an election.
131. Establishment of Area Council Election Tribunal.
132. Establishment of Area Council Election Appeal Tribunal.
133. Persons entitled to present election petitions.
134. Grounds of petition.
135. Certain defects not to invalidate election.
136. Nullification of election by Tribunal or Court.
137. Effect of non-compliance.
138. Person elected to remain in office pending determination of appeal.
139. Legal representation of Commission.
140. Rules of procedure for election petition.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 357
PART IX—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
141. Persons disqualified from acting as election officers.
142. Election expenses by the Commission.
143. Secrecy of ballot.
144. Prosecution of offence disclosed in election petition.
145. Trial of offences.
146. Inspection of documents.
147. Delegation of powers of the Commission.
148. Regulations.
149. Validation.
150. Procedure for Local Government election in furtherance of paragraph
11 of Part II of the Second Schedule to the Constitution.
151. Repeal of the Electoral Act No. 6, 2010.
152. Interpretation.
153. Citation.
SCHEDULES
A 358 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 359
ELECTORAL ACT, 2022
ACT No. 13
AN ACT TO REPEAL THE ELECTORAL ACT, NO. 6, 2010 AND ENACT THE
ELECTORAL ACT, 2022, TO REGULATE THE CONDUCT OF FEDERAL, STATE AND
AREA COUNCILS IN THE FEDERAL CAPITAL TERRITORY ELECTIONS ;
AND FOR RELATED MATTERS.
[25th Day of February, 2022] Commence-
ment.
ENACTED by the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria—
PART I—ESTABLISHMENT AND FUNCTIONS OF INDEPENDENT NATIONAL
ELECTORAL COMMISSION
1.—(1) The Independent National Electoral Commission as established by Establishment
section 153 of the Constitution (in this Act referred to as “the Commission”) — of
Independent
(a) is a body corporate with perpetual succession ; and
National
(b) may sue and be sued in its corporate name. Electoral
Commission
(2) The National Headquarters of the Commission shall be situated in Cap. C23,
the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). LFN, 2004.
2. In addition to the functions conferred on it by the Constitution, the Functions
Commission shall have power to— of the
Commission
(a) conduct voter and civic education ;
Cap. C23,
(b) promote knowledge of sound democratic election processes ; and LFN, 2004.
(c) conduct any referendum required to be conducted under the provisions
of the Constitution or an Act of the National Assembly.
3.—(1) There is established the Independent National Electoral Establishment
Commission Fund (in this Act referred to as “the Fund”). of the
Independent
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund— National
Electoral
(a) such sums and payments received from the Federal Government
Commission
available to the Commission for the performance of its functions under this Fund
Act ;
(b) such sums as may be credited to the Fund by way of interest from
investments made from the Fund ; and
(c) aids, grants or any other accruals to the Commission in order to
perform its functions.
(3) The election funds due to the Commission for any general elections
are to be released to the Commission not later than one year before the next
general election.
A 360 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(4) Disbursements from the Fund shall be made in accordance with
rules set out by the Commission.
Expenditure 4.—(1) The Commission may apply the proceeds of the Fund to—
of the
(a) defray the cost of administration of the Commission ;
Commission.
(b) reimburse members or members of any committee set up by the
Commission for such expenses as may be expressly authorised by the
Commission in accordance with the rates approved by it ;
(c) the payment of the salaries, fees or other remuneration or allowances
and pensions, superannuation allowance and gratuities payable to the officers
and servants of the Commission ;
(d) the maintenance of any property vested in the Commission ; and
(e) all or any of its functions under this Act.
(2) No payment of any kind under subsection (1) (c), except payment
as may be expressly authorised, shall be made to any person who is in receipt
of emoluments from the Government of the Federation or of a State.
Annual 5. The Commission shall keep proper accounts and records in respect
estimates of each financial year and shall cause its accounts to be audited as soon as
and possible after the end of each financial year as required by law.
accounts.
Establishment 6.—(1) There is established in each State of the Federation, Federal
of office in Capital Territory and Local Government Area, an office of the Commission
each State, which shall perform such functions as may be assigned to it by the Commission.
Federal
Capital (2) A person appointed to the office of a Resident Electoral Commissioner
Territory shall—
and Local
Government (a) be answerable to the Commission ; and
Area.
(b) hold office for a term of five years from the date of his or her
appointment which may be renewable for another term of five years and
no more.
Cap. C23, (3) The Resident Electoral Commissioner appointed under the
LFN, 2004 Constitution may only be removed by the President, acting on an address
supported by two-thirds majority of the Senate praying that the Resident
Electoral Commissioner be so removed for inability to perform the functions
of the office, whether arising from infirmity of mind or body or any other
cause, or for misconduct.
Cap. F7, (4) The appointment of a Resident Electoral Commissioner shall be
LFN, 2004 in compliance with section 14 (3) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic
of Nigeria and section 4 of the Federal Character Commission
(Establishment, etc.) Act.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 361
7. The Commission may appoint one or more committees to perform Committees
any of its functions under this Act. of the
Commission.
PART II—STAFF OF THE COMMISSION
8.—(1) There shall be a Secretary to the Commission who shall— Secretary
and other
(a) be appointed by the Commission ; staff of the
(b) have such qualifications and experience to be determined by the Commission.
Commission as are appropriate for a person required to perform the
functions of his or her office under this Act ; and
(c) hold office for a term of four years from the date of his or her
appointment which may be renewable for another term of four years and
no more.
(2) Subject to the general direction of the Commission, the Secretary
shall be—
(a) responsible for keeping proper records of the proceedings of the
Commission ;
(b) the head of the Commission’s secretariat and be responsible for its
administration ; and
(c) responsible for the direction and control of all other employees of
the Commission with the approval of the Commission.
(3) The Commission shall have power to appoint, dismiss and exercise
disciplinary control over its staff as may be prescribed by this Act or any
other enactment by the National Assembly.
(4) All employees of the Commission appointed under subsection
(3), excluding persons appointed on a temporary basis for an honorarium,
Act No. 4,
shall have the same rights and obligations as provided for in the Pension 2014.
Reform Act.
(5) A person who, being a member of a political party, misrepresents
himself by not disclosing his membership, affiliation, or connection to any
political party in order to secure an appointment with the Commission in any
capacity, commits an offence and is liable on conviction, to a fine of N5,000,000
or imprisonment for a term not more than two years or both.
PART III—NATIONAL REGISTER OF VOTERS AND VOTERS’ REGISTRATION
9.—(1) The Commission shall compile, maintain, and update, on a National
continuous basis, a National Register of Voters (in this Act referred to as “the Register of
Voters and
Register of Voters”) which shall include the names of all persons—
voters’
(a) entitled to vote in any Federal, State, Local Government or Federal registration.
Capital Territory Area Council election ; and
(b) with disability status disaggregated by type of disability.
A 362 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(2) The Commission shall keep the Register of Voters in its National
Headquarters and other locations as the Commission may determine :
Provided that the Commission shall keep the Register of Voters in—
(a) electronic format in its central database ; and
(b) manual, printed, paper-based record or hard copy format.
(3) The Commission shall maintain as part of the Register of Voters, a
register of voters for each State of the Federation and for the Federal Capital
Territory.
(4) The Commission shall maintain as part of the Register of Voters for
each State and the Federal Capital Territory, a Register of Voters for each
Local Government or Area Council within the State and the Federal Capital
Territory.
(5) The Register of Voters shall contain, in respect of each person, the
particulars required in the Form prescribed by the Commission.
(6) The registration of voters, updating and revision of the Register of
Voters under this section shall stop not later than 90 days before any election
covered by this Act.
(7) The registration of voters shall be at the registration centers designated
for that purpose by the Commission and notified to the public.
Continuous 10.—(1) Without prejudice to section 9 (6), there shall be continuous
registration. registration of all persons qualified to be registered voters.
(2) Each applicant for registration under the continuous registration
system shall appear in person at the registration venue with any of the following
documents—
(a) birth certificate ;
(b) national passport, identity card or driver’s licence ; or
(c) any other document that will prove the identity, age and nationality of
the applicant.
(3) The Commission shall, within 60 days after each year, make available
to every political party the names and address of each person registered during
that year.
(4) When a general election is notified by the Commission under
section 28 of this Act, the current official Register of Voters certified by
the Commission in accordance with the provisions of this Act shall be the
official voters’ register for those elections.
(5) In the case of every bye-election conducted under this Act, the
official voters’ register for use at such elections shall be the existing current
register relating to the senatorial district or the constituency concerned.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 363
(6) As soon as claims and objections have been dealt with or the period
for making claims and objections has expired, the supplementary list shall be
included in the revised register, which shall be certified by the Commission as
the official Register of Voters for the purpose of any election conducted under
this Act and supersedes all previous registers.
11.—(1) For the purpose of maintaining and updating the Voters’ Appointment
Register, the Commission shall appoint such registration, revision or update of officers.
officers as it may require, provided that such officers shall not be members
of any political party.
(2) Any person may raise an objection against any officer during the
registration or updating exercise provided that failure to raise such objection
shall not vitiate the register.
(3) The officers appointed under subsection (1) shall perform such
functions and discharge such duties as may be specified by the Commission,
in accordance with the provisions of this Act, and shall not be subject to the
direction or control of any person or authority other than the Commission in
the performance of their functions and discharge of their duties.
12.—(1) A person shall be qualified to be registered as a voter if such a Qualification
person— for
registration.
(a) is a citizen of Nigeria ;
(b) has attained the age of 18 years ;
(c) is ordinarily resident, works in, originates from the Local Government,
Area Council or Ward covered by the registration centre ;
(d) presents himself to the registration officers of the Commission for
registration as a voter ; and
(e) is not subject to any legal incapacity to vote under any law, rule or
regulations in force in Nigeria.
(2) A person shall not register in more than one registration centre or
register more than once in the same registration centre.
(3) A person who contravenes subsection (2) commits an offence and is
liable on conviction to a fine not more than N100,000 or imprisonment for a
term not more than one year or both.
13.—(1) A person who before the election is resident in a constituency Transfer of
other than the one in which he or she was registered may apply to the Resident registered
Electoral Commissioner of the State where he or she is currently resident for voters.
his or her name to be entered on the Transferred Voters List for the constituency.
(2) An application under subsection (1) shall be accompanied by a copy
of the applicant’s voters’ card and shall be made not later than 90 days before
the date of an election in the constituency where the applicant is resident.
A 364 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(3) The Resident Electoral Commissioner to whom an application is
made under this section shall cause the applicant’s name to be entered in the
Transferred Voters’ List if he or she is satisfied that the applicant is resident in
a polling area in the constituency and is registered in another constituency.
(4) Whenever an electoral officer on the direction of the Resident
Electoral Commissioner enters the name of any person on the Transferred
Voters’ List for his or her constituency, he or she shall—
(a) assign that person to a polling station or a polling area in his or her
constituency and indicate in the list the polling area or polling station to
which that person is assigned ;
(b) issue the person with a new voters’ card and retrieve his or her
previous voter’s card ; and
(c) send a copy of the entry to the electoral officer of the constituency
where the person whose name has been so entered was originally registered
and upon receipt of this entry, that electoral officer shall delete the name
from the voters’ list.
Demand for 14. In the performance of his or her duties under this Act, a registration
information officer and an update officer shall—
regarding
registration. (a) demand from any applicant the information necessary to enable him
or her to ascertain whether the applicant is qualified to be registered as a
voter in accordance with the provisions of this Act ; and
(b) require any voter or applicant to complete an application form for the
purpose of the registration, but in the case of an illiterate or disabled person
such application form may be completed by the registration officer on the
applicant’s request.
Power to 15. The Commission shall cause a voters’ register for each State to be
print or printed, reproduced, copied, duplicated or saved in electronic format and any
issue register
person or political party may obtain from the Commission, on payment of such
of voters.
fees as may be determined by the Commission, a certified true copy of any
voters’ register for the State or for a Local Government or Area Council
polling units or registration area within it.
Power to 16.—(1) The Commission shall design, cause to be printed and control
print or issue the issuance of voters’ cards to voters whose names appear in the register.
voters card.
(2) No voter shall hold more than one valid voters’ card.
(3) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) commits an offence
and is liable on conviction, to a fine not more than N500,000 or imprisonment
for a term not more than one year or both.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 365
(4) The Commission may, whenever it considers it necessary, replace
all or any voters’ cards for the time being held by voters.
17. Each electoral officer shall take custody of the voters register for Custody
his or her Local Government Area or Area Council under the general supervision of voters’
register.
of the Resident Electoral Commissioner.
18.—(1) Whenever a voter’s card is lost, destroyed, defaced, torn or Power to
otherwise damaged, the owner of such card shall, not less than 90 days before issue
replacement
polling day, apply in person to the electoral officer or any other officer duly
permanent
authorised for that purpose by the Resident Electoral Commissioner, stating
voters’
the circumstances of the loss, destruction, defacement or damage. cards.
(2) Where the electoral officer or any other officer is satisfied as to the
circumstances of loss, destruction, defacement or damage of the voter’s card,
he or she shall issue to the voter a replacement permanent voter’s card.
(3) No person shall issue a replacement permanent voter’s card to any
voter less than 90 days before polling day.
(4) Where the electoral officer or any other officer is satisfied as to the
circumstances of the loss, destruction, defacement or damage of the voter’s
card, he or she shall issue to the voter another copy of the voter’s original
voter’s card with the word “REPLACEMENT” clearly marked or printed on
it, showing the date of issue.
(5) Any person who contravenes subsection (3) commits an offence
and is liable on conviction, to a fine not more than N200,000 or imprisonment
for a term not more than two years or both.
19.—(1) Subject to the provisions of section 9 (5) of this Act, the Display of
Commission shall, not later than 90 days to a general election, appoint a period the copies of
of seven days during which a copy of the voters’ register for each Local the voters’
list.
Government, Area Council or Ward shall be displayed or published for public
scrutiny at every registration area and on its official website or any website
established by the Commission for that purpose.
(2) Upon displaying or publishing the voters register in accordance with
this section, the Commission shall accept and consider objections and complaints
in relation to the names omitted or included in the voters’ register or in relation
to any necessary correction, within 14 days after displaying the voters register
in accordance with this section.
(3) During the period of the display of the voters’ list under this Act, any
person may—
(a) raise an objection on the form prescribed by the Commission against
the inclusion in the supplementary voters’ register of the name of a person
on grounds that the person is not qualified to be registered as a voter in the
A 366 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
State, Local Government or Area Council, Ward or registration area or that
the name of a deceased person is included in the register ; or
(b) make a claim on the form prescribed by the Commission that the
name of a person registered to vote has been omitted.
(4) Any objection or claim under subsection (2) shall be addressed to
the Resident Electoral Commissioner through the electoral officer in charge
of the Local Government or Area Council
(5) An official or staff of the Commission, who fails to display or publish
the voters’ register as provided under subsection (1) commits an offence and
is liable on conviction to a fine of N100,000 or imprisonment for a term of six
months or both.
Revision 20.—(1) The Commission may appoint as a Revision Officer any person
officer for to hear and determine claims for and objection to any entry in or omission
hearing of
from the preliminary list of voters and may appoint such number of other
claims.
persons as it deems necessary to assist the Revision Officer.
(2) Any person dissatisfied with the determination by a Revision Officer
or person or persons assisting a Revision Officer of his or her claims or objection
as mentioned in subsection (1), shall within seven days, appeal against the
decision to the Resident Electoral Commissioner in charge of that State whose
decision shall be final.
Proprietary 21. The proprietary rights in any voters’ card issued to any voter shall
rights in the vest in the Commission.
voters’ card.
Offences of 22. Any person who—
buying and
(a) is in unlawful possession of any voter’s card whether issued in the
selling
voters’ cards. name of any voter or not ; or
(b) sells or attempts to sell or offers to sell any voter’s card whether
issued in the name of any voter or not ; or
(c) buys or offers to buy any voters’ card whether on his own behalf or
on behalf of any other person, commits an offence and is liable on conviction
to a fine not more than N500,000 or imprisonment not more than two years
or both.
Offences 23.—(1) Any person who—
relating to
(a) after demand or requisition made of him or her under this Act without
register of
voters. just cause, fails to give any such information as he or she possesses or does
not give the information within the time specified ;
(b) in the name of any other person, whether living, dead or fictitious,
signs an application form for registration as a voter to have that other person
registered as a voter ;
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 367
(c) transmits or is involved in transmitting to any person as genuine a
declaration relating to registration which is false in any material particular,
knowing it to be false ;
(d) intentionally procures the inclusion in the Register of Voters of his or
herself or any other person with the knowledge that he or she or that other
person ought not to have been registered ; or
(e) by his or herself or any other person procures the registration of a
fictitious person, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine
not more than N100,000 or imprisonment for a term not more than one
year or both.
(2) Any person who—
(a) by duress, including threats of any kind causes or induces any person
or persons generally to refrain from registering as a voter or voters ; or
(b) in any way hinders another person from registering as a voter;
commits an offence and is liable on conviction, to a fine not more than
N500,000or imprisonment for a term not more than five years.
PART IV—PROCEDURE AT ELECTION
24.—(1) In the event of an emergency affecting an election, the Conduct and
Commission shall, as far as practicable, ensure that persons displaced as a postponement
of election in
result of the emergency are not disenfranchised.
emergency.
(2) Where a date has been appointed for the holding of an election, and
there is reason to believe that a serious breach of the peace is likely to occur
if the election is proceeded with on that date or it is impossible to conduct the
elections as a result of natural disasters or other emergencies, the Commission
may postpone the election and shall in respect of the area, or areas concerned,
appoint another date for the holding of the postponed election, provided that
such reason for the postponement is cogent and verifiable.
(3) Where an election has commenced and there is reason to believe
that there is or has been substantial disruption of election in a polling unit or
constituency or it is impossible to continue with the election occasioned by
threat to peace and security of electoral officials and materials, the Commission
shall suspend the election and appoint another date for the continuation of the
election or the process.
(4) Where the Commission appoints a substituted date in accordance
with subsections (2) and (3), there shall be no return for the election until
polling has taken place in the area or areas affected.
(5) Notwithstanding subsection (3), the Commission may, if satisfied
that the result of the election will not be affected by voting in the area or areas
in respect of which substituted dates have been appointed, direct that a return
of the election be made.
A 368 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(6) The decision of the Commission under subsection (4) may be
challenged by any of the contestants at a court or tribunal of competent
jurisdiction and on such challenge, the decision shall be suspended until the
matter is determined.
Announcement 25.—(1) The results of all the elections shall be announced by the—
and
(a) Presiding officer at the polling unit ;
declaration
of election (b) Ward Collation Officer at the registration area or Ward Collation
results. Centre ;
(c) Local Government or Area Council Collation Officer at the Local
Government or Area Council Collation Centre ; and
(d) State Collation Officer at the State Collation Centre.
(2) The returning officer shall announce the result and declare the winner
of the election at—
(a) Registration Area or Ward Collation Centre in the case of
Councillorship election in the Federal Capital Territory ;
(b) Area Council Collation Centre in the case of Chairmanship and Vice
Chairmanship election in the Federal Capital Territory ;
(c) State Constituency Collation Centre in the case of State House of
Assembly election ;
(d) Federal Constituency Collation Centre in the case of election to the
House of Representatives ;
(e) Senatorial District Collation Centre in the case of election to the
Senate ;
(f ) State Collation Centre in the case of election of a Governor of a
State ;
(g) State Collation Centre in the case of a Presidential election ; and
(h) National Collation Centre in the case of election of the President.
(3) The Chief Electoral Commissioner shall be the returning officer at
the Presidential election.
26.—(1) All staff, electoral officers, presiding officers, returning officers
Oath of
neutrality and security officials taking part in the conduct of an election shall affirm or
by election swear to an oath of loyalty and neutrality as in the Second Schedule, indicating
officials.
that they will not accept bribe or gratification from any person, and shall perform
Second their functions and discharge their duties impartially and in the interest of the
Schedule.
Federal Republic of Nigeria without fear or favour.
(2) Any person who violates subsection (1), commits an offence and is
punishable under section 120 (dereliction of duty).
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 369
27.—(1) The Commission shall for the purpose of an election or Appointment
registration of voters under this Act, appoint and designate such officers as of other
officers for
may be required provided that no person who is a member of a political party
the conduct
or who has openly expressed support for any candidate shall be so appointed.
of
registration
(2) The officers appointed under subsection (1) shall perform such
of voters and
functions and discharge such duties as may be specified by the Commission,
elections.
in accordance with the provisions of this Act, and shall not be subject to the
direction or control of any person or authority other than the Commission in
the performance of their functions and discharge of their duties.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law and for purpose of
securing the vote, the Commission shall be responsible for requesting for the
deployment of relevant security personnel necessary for elections or registration
of voters and shall assign them in the manner determined by the Commission
in consultation with the relevant security agencies :
Provided that the Commission shall only request for the deployment of the
Nigerian Armed Forces for the purpose of securing the distribution and delivery
of election materials and protection of election officials.
28.—(1) The Commission shall, not later than 360 days before the day Notice of
appointed for holding of an election under this Act, publish a notice in each election.
State of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory—
(a) stating the date of the election ; and
(b) appointing the place at which nomination papers are to be delivered.
(2) The notice shall be published in each constituency in respect of
which an election is to be held.
(3) In the case of a by-election, the Commission shall, not later than 14
days before the date appointed for the election, publish a notice stating the
date of the election.
(4) There shall not be substitution of candidates in a by-election except
where a candidate of a political party in a by-election dies, the party shall
submit to the Commission the name of its substitute candidate within seven
days of the death of the candidate in the Form prescribed by the Commission.
29.—(1) Every political party shall, not later than 180 days before the Submission
date appointed for a general election under this Act, submit to the Commission, of list of
candidates
in the prescribed Forms, the list of the candidates the party proposes to sponsor
and their
at the elections, who must have emerged from valid primaries conducted by
affidavits by
the political party. political
parties.
(2) The list or information submitted by each candidate shall be
accompanied by an affidavit sworn to by the candidate at the Federal High
A 370 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
Court, High Court of a State, or Federal Capital Territory, indicating that he or
she has fulfilled all the constitutional requirements for election into that office.
(3) The Commission shall, within seven days of the receipt of the personal
particulars of the candidate, publish same in the constituency where the
candidate intends to contest the election.
(4) Any person may apply to the Commission for a copy of nomination
form, affidavit and any other document submitted by a candidate at an election
and the Commission shall, upon payment of a prescribed fee, issue such person
with a certified copy of the document within 14 days.
(5) Any aspirant who participated in the primaries of his political party
who has reasonable grounds to believe that any information given by his political
party’s candidate in the affidavit or any document submitted by that candidate
in relation to his constitutional requirements to contest the election is false,
may file a suit at the Federal High Court against that candidate seeking a
declaration that the information contained in the affidavit is false.
(6) Where the Court determines that any of the information contained
in the affidavit is false only as it relates to constitutional requirements of
eligibility, the Court shall issue an order disqualifying the candidate and the
sponsoring political party and then declare the candidate with the second highest
number of valid votes and who satisfies the constitutional requirement as the
winner of the election.
(7) A candidate for an election shall, at the time of submitting the
prescribed form, furnish the Commission with an identifiable address in the
state where he or she intends to contest the election at which address all
documents and court processes from either the Commission or any other
person shall be served on him or her.
(8) A political party which presents to the Commission the name of a
candidate who does not meet the qualification stipulated in this section, commits
an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of N10,000,000.
Prohibition 30.—(1) A candidate for an election shall be nominated in writing by
of double such number of persons whose names appear on the register of voters in the
nomination.
constituency as the Commission may prescribe.
(2) A person shall not nominate more than one person for an election to
the same office.
(3) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) commits an offence
and is liable on conviction to a fine not more than N100,000 or imprisonment
for a term of three months or both, but his or her action shall not invalidate the
nomination.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 371
(4) An account shall not be taken of the signature of a person on a
nomination paper where the candidate had died, withdrawn or the nomination
paper was held invalid by a Court of competent jurisdiction.
(5) A person who has subscribed as a nominator shall not, so long as the
candidate stands nominated withdraw his or her nomination.
31. A candidate may withdraw his or her candidature by notice in writing Withdrawal
signed by him and delivered personally by the candidate to the political party of
that nominated him for the election and the political party shall convey such candidate.
withdrawal to the Commission not later than 90 days to the election.
32.—(1) The Commission shall, at least 150 days before the day of the Publication
election, publish by displaying or causing to be displayed at the relevant office of
nomination.
or offices of the Commission and on the Commission’s web site, a statement
of the full names and addresses of all candidates standing nominated.
(2) Any registered political party that observes that the name of its
candidate is missing on the list published in accordance with subsection (1)
shall notify the Commission in writing, signed by its National Chairman and
Secretary, supported with an affidavit not later than 90 days to the election.
(3) Failure of the political party to notify the Commission in accordance
with subsection (2) shall not be a ground to invalidate the election.
33. A political party shall not be allowed to change or substitute its Political
candidate whose name has been submitted under section 29 of this Act, except parties
changing
in the case of death or withdrawal by the candidate :
candidates.
Provided that in the case of such withdrawal or death of a candidate, the
political party affected shall, within 14 days of the occurrence of the event,
hold a fresh primary election to produce and submit a fresh candidate to the
Commission for the election concerned.
34.—(1) If after the time for the delivery of nomination paper and before Death of a
the commencement of the poll, a nominated candidate dies, the Chief National candidate.
Electoral Commissioner shall, being satisfied of the fact of the death, countermand
the poll in which the deceased candidate was to participate and the Commission
shall appoint some other convenient date for the election within 14 days.
(2) The list of voters to be used at a postponed election shall be the
official voters register which was to be used if the election had not been
postponed.
(3) If after the commencement of polls and before the announcement
of the final result and declaration of a winner, a candidate dies—
(a) the Commission shall, being satisfied of the fact of the death, suspend
the election for a period not more than 21 days ; and
A 372 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(b) in the case of election into a legislative House, the election shall start
afresh and the political party whose candidate died may, if it intends to
continue to participate in the election, conduct a fresh primary within 14
days of the death of its candidate and submit the name of a new candidate
to the Commission to replace the dead candidate :
Provided that in the case of presidential or gubernatorialor Federal Capital
Territory Area Council election, the running mate shall continue with the election
and nominate a new running mate.
Invalidity of 35. Where a candidate knowingly allows himself to be nominated by
multiple more than one political party or in more than one constituency, his nomination
nomination.
shall be void.
Failure of 36. Where at the close of nomination there is no candidate validly
nomination. nominated, the Commission shall extend the time for nomination and fix a new
date for the election.
Contested 37. Subject to any other provisions of this Act, if after the latest time for
election. the delivery of nomination papers and the withdrawal of candidates for an
election under this Act more than one person remains validly nominated, a poll
shall be taken.
When poll 38. A poll shall take place in accordance with the provisions of this Act
is required. in the case of an election to—
(a) the office of President or Governor of a State, whether or not only
one person is validly nominated in respect of such office ; and
(b) any other office, if after the expiry of the time for delivery of
nomination papers there is more than one person standing nominated.
Uncontested 39.—(1) Where after the expiration of time for delivery of nomination
election. papers, withdrawal of candidates and the extension of time as provided for in
this Act there is only one person who is validly nominated in respect of an
election, other than to the office of the President or Governor, that person
shall be declared elected.
(2) Where a person is declared elected under subsection (1), a
Declaration of Result Form as may be prescribed by the Commission shall be
completed and a copy issued to the person by the returning officer while the
original of the form shall be returned to the Commission as in the case of a
contested election.
Establishment 40.—(1) The Commission shall divide each Local Government Area
of polling into registration areas or Electoral Wards not being less than 10 and not more
units.
than 20 as the circumstance of the Local Government Area may require.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 373
(2) The Commission shall establish adequate number of polling units
in each registration area or Electoral ward and shall allot voters to such
polling units.
41.—(1) The Commission shall provide suitable boxes, electronic voting Ballot boxes
machine or any other voting device for the conduct of elections. and voting
devices.
(2) The forms to be used for the conduct of elections to the offices
mentioned in this Act shall be determined by the Commission.
(3) The Polling agents shall be entitled to be present at the distribution of
the election materials, electronic voting machine and voting devices from the
office to the polling booth.
(4) Polling agents who are in attendance at a polling unit, may be entitled,
before the commencement of the election, to have originals of electoral materials
to be used by the Commission for the election inspected, and this process may
be recorded as evidence in writing, on video or by other means by any Polling
Agent, accredited observer or official of the Commission.
(5) A Polling Agent who is in attendance at a polling unit, may observe
originals of the electoral materials and this may be recorded as evidence.
(6) The Commission shall, before the commencement of voting in each
election, provide all election materials for the conduct of such election at the
polling unit.
42.—(1) The Commission shall prescribe the format of the ballot papers Format
which shall include the symbol adopted by the political party of the candidate of ballot
papers.
and such other information as it may require.
(2) The ballot papers shall be numbered serially with differentiating
colours for each office being contested.
(3) The Commission shall, not later than 20 days to an election, invite in
writing, a political party that nominated a candidate in the election to inspect
its identity appearing on samples of relevant electoral materials proposed for
the election and the political party may state in writing within two days of
being so invited by the Commission that it approves or disapproves of its
identity as it appears on the samples.
(4) Unless the political party disapproves of its identity under subsection
(3) in writing, it shall not complain of unlawful exclusion from the election
under this Act in relation to its identity appearing on electoral materials used
for the election.
(5) A political party that fails to comply with an invitation by the
Commission under subsection (3) shall be deemed to have approved its identity
on samples of electoral materials proposed to be used for an election.
A 374 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
Polling 43.—(1) Each Political Party, in consultation with its candidate, may, by
agents. notice in writing addressed to the Resident Electoral Commissioner of the
State, appoint a polling agent for each polling unit and collation centre in the
Local Government Area or Area Council for which it has candidate and the
notice, which sets out the name, address and contact details of the polling
agent, shall be accompanied by two passport photographs of each polling
agent and sample signature of the polling agent and be given to the electoral
officer at least 14 days before the date fixed for the election :
Provided that no person who is serving as Chairman or member of a Local
Government Area or Area Council, Commissioner, Deputy Governor or
Governor of a State, Minister of the Federal Government, or any other person
holding elective or appointive political office under any tier of government and
who has not resigned from his office at least three months prior to the said
election shall serve as a polling agent of any political party, either at the polling
unit or at any centre designated for collation of results of election.
(2) Notwithstanding the requirement of subsection (1), a candidate shall
not be precluded from doing any act or thing which his political party, in
consultation with him, has appointed a polling agent to do on his or her behalf
under this Act.
(3) Where in this Act, an act or thing is required or authorised to be done
by or in the presence of a Polling Agent, the non-attendance of the Polling
Agent at the time and place appointed for the act or thing or refusal by the
Polling Agent to do the act or thing shall not, if the act or thing is otherwise
done properly, invalidate the act or thing.
Notice of 44. The Commission shall, not later than 14 days before the day of the
poll. election, cause to be published, in such manner as it may deem fit, a notice
specifying the—
(a) day and hours fixed for the poll ;
(b) persons entitled to vote ; and
(c) location of the polling units.
Hour of poll. 45. Voting in any particular election under this Act shall take place on
the date and time appointed by the Commission.
Display of 46.—(1) At the hour fixed for opening of the poll before the
ballot boxes. commencement of accreditation and voting, the Presiding officer shall open
the empty ballot box or present the voting device and show same to such
persons as may lawfully be present at the polling unit and shall then close and
seal the box in such manner as to prevent its being opened by any
unauthorised person.
(2) The ballot box shall then be placed in full view of all present and be
so maintained until the close of poll.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 375
47.—(1) A person intending to vote in an election shall present himself Accreditation
with his voter’s card to a Presiding officer for accreditation at the polling unit of voters and
voting.
in the constituency in which his name is registered.
(2) To vote, the presiding officer shall use a smart card reader or any
other technological device that may be prescribed by the Commission, for the
accreditation of voters, to verify, confirm or authenticate the particulars of the
intending voter in the manner prescribed by the Commission.
(3) Where a smart card reader or any other technological device deployed
for accreditation of voters fails to function in any unit and a fresh card reader
or technological device is not deployed, the election in that unit shall be cancelled
and another election shall be scheduled within 24 hours if the Commission is
satisfied that the result of the election in that polling unit will substantially
affect the final result of the whole election and declaration of a winner in the
constituency concerned.
48. A candidate or a Polling Agent may challenge the right of a person Right to
to vote on such grounds and in accordance with such procedures as are challenge
issue of
provided for in this Act.
ballot paper.
49. The Presiding officer shall separate the queue between men and Separate
women if in that area of the country the culture is such that it does not permit queues for
men and
the mingling of men and women in the same queue.
women.
50.—(1) Voting at an election under this Act shall be by open secret Conduct of
ballot. poll by open
secret ballot.
(2) Subject to section 63 of this Act, voting at an election and transmission
of results under this Act shall be in accordance with the procedure determined
by the Commission.
(3) A voter on receiving a ballot paper shall mark it in the manner
prescribed by the Commission.
(4) All ballots at an election under this Act at any polling station shall be
deposited in the ballot box in the open view of the public.
51.—(1) No voter shall vote for more than one candidate or record Over voting.
more than one vote in favour of any candidate at any one election.
(2) Where the number of votes cast at an election in any polling unit
exceeds the number of accredited voters in that polling unit, the Presiding
officer shall cancel the result of the election in that polling unit.
(3) Where the result of an election is cancelled in accordance with
subsection (2), there shall be no return for the election until another poll has
taken place in the affected polling unit.
A 376 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) the
Commission may, if satisfied that the result of the election will not substantially
be affected by voting in the area where the election is cancelled, direct that a
return of the election be made.
Ballot not to 52.—(1) Where a voter makes any writing or mark on a ballot paper by
be marked
which he or she may be identified, such ballot paper shall be rejected provided
by voter for
that any print resulting from the staining of the thumb of the voter in the voting
identification.
compartment shall not be or be deemed to be a mark of identification under
this section.
(2) The Commission shall use indelible ink for any thumb mark by voters
on ballot papers.
Accidental 53. A voter who by accident deals with his or her ballot paper in such a
destruction manner that it may not be conveniently used for voting, may deliver it to the
or marking
Presiding officer and if the Presiding officer is satisfied that the ballot paper is
of ballot
spoilt he or she shall issue another ballot paper to the voter in place of the
papers.
ballot paper delivered up, and the spoilt ballot paper shall be immediately marked
cancelled by the Presiding officer.
Visually 54.—(1) A Voter with visual impairment or other form of disability who
impaired and is otherwise unable to distinguish symbol or who suffers from any other physical
incapacitated
disability may be accompanied into the polling unit by a person chosen by him
voters.
or her and that person shall, after informing the Presiding officer of the disability,
be permitted to accompany the voter into the voting compartment and assist
the voter to make his or her mark in accordance with the procedure prescribed
by the Commission.
(2) The Commission shall take reasonable steps to ensure that persons
with disabilities, special needs and vulnerable persons are assisted at the polling
place by the provision of suitable means of communication, such as Braille,
large embossed print, electronic devices, sign language interpretation, or off-
site voting in appropriate cases.
Personal 55. No voter shall record his or her vote otherwise than by personally
attendance. attending at the polling unit or voting centres and recording his or her vote in
the manner prescribed by the Commission.
Voting at 56. No person shall be permitted to vote at any polling unit other than
appropriate
the one to which he or she is allotted.
polling unit.
Impersonation 57.—(1) If at the time a person applies to vote and before he or she has
by applicant left the polling unit, a Polling Agent, polling unit official or security agent informs
to vote.
the Presiding officer that he or she has reasonable cause to believe that the
person is under the age of 18 years or has committed the offence of
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 377
impersonation and gives an undertaking on a prescribed form to substantiate
the charge in a court of law, the Presiding officer may order a police officer to
arrest that person and the Presiding officer’s order shall be sufficient authority
for the police officer to act.
(2) A person in respect of whom a Polling Agent, polling official, or
security agent gives an information in accordance with the provision of
subsection (1) shall not by reason of the information, be prevented from voting,
but the Presiding officer shall cause the words “protested against for
impersonation” to be placed against his or her name in the marked copy of the
register of voters or part of the register of voters.
(3) Where a person in respect of whom a declaration is made under
subsection (2), admits to the Presiding officer that he or she is not the person
he or she held themselves out to be, he or she shall not be permitted to vote
and shall be handed over to the police or security agent.
(4) A person arrested under this section shall be deemed to be a person
taken into custody by a police officer.
58.—(1) The presiding officer shall regulate the admission of voters to Conduct at
the polling unit and shall exclude all persons other than the candidates, polling polling units.
agents, poll clerks and persons lawfully entitled to be admitted including
accredited observers, and the Presiding officer shall keep order and comply
with the requirements of this Act at the polling unit.
(2) The presiding officer may order a person to be removed from a
polling unit, who behaves in a disorderly manner or fails to obey a lawful
order.
(3) A person removed from a polling unit under this section shall not,
without the permission of the presiding officer, again enter the polling unit
during the day of the election, and if charged with the commission of an offence
in that polling unit, the person shall be deemed to be a person taken into custody
by a police officer for an offence in respect of which he may be arrested
without a warrant.
(4) The provisions of subsection (3) shall not be enforced so as to
prevent a voter who is otherwise entitled to vote at a polling unit from having
an opportunity of voting.
(5) In the absence of the presiding officer, the poll clerk shall enjoy and
exercise all the powers of the presiding officer in respect of a polling unit.
59. At the prescribed hour for the close of poll, the Presiding officer shall Closing
declare the poll closed and no more person shall be admitted into the Polling unit of poll.
and only those already inside the polling unit shall be allowed to vote.
A 378 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
Counting of 60.—(1) The Presiding officer shall, after counting the votes at the polling
votes and unit, enter the votes scored by each candidate in a form to be prescribed by
forms.
the Commission as the case may be.
(2) The form shall be signed and stamped by the presiding officer and
counter signed by the candidates or their polling agents where available at the
polling unit.
(3) The presiding officer shall give to the polling agents and the police
officer where available a copy each of the completed forms after it has been
duly signed as provided under subsection (2).
(4) The presiding officer shall count and announce the result at the
polling unit.
(5) The presiding officer shall transfer the results including total number
of accredited voters and the results of the ballot in a manner as prescribed by
the Commission.
(6) A presiding officer who wilfully contravenes any provision of this
section commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not more than
N500,000 or imprisonment for a term of at least six months.
Recount. 61. A candidate or a polling agent may, where present at a polling unit
when counting of votes is completed by the presiding officer, demand to have
the votes recounted provided that the presiding officer shall cause the votes to
be so recounted only once.
Post-election 62.—(1) After the recording and announcement of the result, the presiding
procedure officer shall deliver same along with election materials under security and
and collation
accompanied by the candidates or their polling agents, where available, to
of election
such person as may be prescribed by the Commission.
results.
(2) The Commission shall compile, maintain and update, on a continuous
basis, a register of election results to be known as the National Electronic
Register of Election Results which shall be a distinct database or repository of
polling unit by polling unit results, including collated election results, of each
election conducted by the Commission in the Federation, and the Register of
Election Results shall be kept in electronic format by the Commission at its
national headquarters.
(3) Any person or political party may obtain from the Commission, on
payment of such fees as may be determined by the Commission, a certified
true copy of any election result kept in the National Electronic Register of
Election Results for a State, Local Government, Area Council, registration
area or Electoral Ward or Polling Unit, as the case may be, and the certified
true copy may be in printed or electronic format.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 379
63.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a ballot paper which does not bear Rejection of
official mark prescribed by the Commission shall not be counted. ballot paper
without
(2) If the returning officer is satisfied that a ballot paper which does not official mark.
bear the official mark was from a book of ballot papers which was furnished
to the presiding officer of the polling unit in which the vote was cast for use at
the election in question, he or she shall, notwithstanding the absence of the
official mark, count that ballot paper.
64.—(1) The presiding officer shall endorse the word “rejected” on the Endorsement
ballot paper rejected under section 52 (1) of this Act and for any other reason, on rejected
ballot paper
and the ballot papers shall not be counted except otherwise allowed by the
without
returning officer who may overrule the presiding officer.
official mark.
(2) If an objection to the decision of a presiding officer to reject a ballot
paper is raised by a candidate or a polling agent at the time the decision is
made, the presiding officer shall add to the word “rejected”, the phrase “but
objected to”.
(3) The presiding officer shall prepare a statement on rejected ballot
papers, stating the number rejected, the reason for rejection and their serial
number, and he or she shall on request, allow a candidate or a polling agent to
copy the statement.
(4) A collation officer or returning officerat an election shall collate and
announce the result of an election, subject to his or her verification and
confirmation that the—
(a) number of accredited voters stated on the collated result are correct
and consistent with the number of accredited voters recorded and transmitted
directly from polling units under section 47 (2) of this Act ; and
(b) the votes stated on the collated result are correct and consistent with
the votes or results recorded and transmitted directly from polling units
under section 60 (4) of this Act.
(5) Subject to subsection (1), a collation officer or returning officer shall
use the number of accredited voters recorded and transmitted directly from
polling units under section 47 (2) of this Act and the votes or results recorded
and transmitted directly from polling units under section 60 (4) of this Act to
collate and announce the result of an election if a collated result at his or a
lower level of collation is not correct.
(6) Where during collation of results, there is a dispute regarding a
collated result or the result of an election from any polling unit, the collation
officer or returning officer shall use the following to determine the correctness
of the disputed result—
A 380 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(a) the original of the disputed collated result for each polling unit where
the election is disputed ;
(b) the smart card reader or other technology device used for accreditation of
voters in each polling unit where the election is disputed for the purpose of obtaining
accreditation data directly from the smart card reader or technology device ;
(c) data of accreditation recorded and transmitted directly from each
polling unit where the election is disputed as prescribed under section 47
(2) of this Act ; and
(d) the votes and result of the election recorded and transmitted directly
from each polling unit where the election is disputed, as prescribed under
section 60 (4) of this Act.
(7) If the disputed result under subsection (6) were otherwise found not
to be correct, the collation officer or returning officer shall re-collate and
announce a new result using the information in subsection (6) (a)-(d).
(8) Where the dispute under subsection (6) arose at the level of collation
and the returning officer has satisfied the provision of subsection (6) (a)-(d),
the returning officer shall accordingly declare the winner of the election.
(9) A returning officer or collation officer, as the case may be, commits
an offence if he or she intentionally collates or announces a false result and is
liable on conviction to a fine of N5,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of at
least three years or both.
Decision of 65.—(1) The decision of the returning officer shall be final on any question
returning arising from or relating to—
officer on
(a) unmarked ballot paper ;
ballot paper.
(b) rejected ballot paper ; and
(c) declaration of scores of candidates and the return of a candidate :
Provided that the Commission shall have the power within seven days to
review the declaration and return where the Commission determines that the
said declaration and return was not made voluntarily or was made contrary to
the provisions of the law, regulations and guidelines, and manual for the election.
(2) A decision of the returning officer under subsection (1) may be
reviewed by anelection tribunal or court of competent jurisdiction in an election
petition proceedings under this Act.
Declaration 66. In an election to the office of the President or Governor whether or
of result. not contested and in any contested election to any other elective office, the
result shall be ascertained by counting the votes cast for each candidate and
subjected to the provisions of sections 133, 134 and 179 of the Constitution,
Cap. C23,
LFN, 2004 the candidate that receives the highest number of votes shall be declared
elected by the appropriate returning officer.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 381
67. Where two or more candidates poll equal number of votes being the Equality
highest in an election, the returning officer shall not return any of the candidates of votes.
and a fresh election shall be held for the candidates who polled equal number
of votes on a date to be appointed by the Commission.
68. The Commission shall cause to be posted on its notice board and Posting of
website, a notice showing the candidates at the election and their scores, and results.
the person declared as elected or returned at the election.
69. The Chief Electoral Commissioner or any officer authorised by him Custody of
or her shall keep official custody of all the documents, including statement of documents.
results and ballot papers relating to the election, which are returned to the
Commission by the returning officers.
70. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Commission shall issue and Step-by-
publish in the Federal Government Gazette, guidelines for the elections which step
recording
shall make provisions, among other things, for the step-by-step recording of
of poll.
the poll in the electoral forms as may be prescribed beginning from the polling
unit to the last collation centre for the ward or constituency where the result
of the election shall be declared.
71. Every result form completed at the ward, local government, state Result forms
and national levels in accordance with the provisions of this Act or any guidelines to be signed
and
issued by the Commission shall be stamped, signed and countersigned by the
countersigned.
relevant officers and polling agents at those levels and copies given to the
police officers and the polling agents, where available.
72.—(1) A sealed certificate of return at an election in a prescribed Certificate
form shall be issued within 14 days to every candidate who has been returned of return.
by the returning officer in an election under this Act :
Provided that where the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court being the final
appellate court in any election petition, as the case may be, nullifies any
candidate’s certificate of return, the Commission shall within 48 hours after
receipt of the court’s order, issue the successful candidate with a valid
certificate of return.
(2) Where the Commission fails, refuses, or neglects to issue the
certificate of return under subsection (1), a certified true copy of the order of
the court shall, by that very fact, be sufficient for the purpose of swearing-in
a candidate declared as the winner of the election by that court.
73.—(1) The forms to be used for the conduct of elections under this Forms for
Act shall be determined by the Commission. use at
elections.
(2) An election conducted at a polling unit without the prior recording in
the forms prescribed by the Commission of the quantity, serial numbers and
other particulars of results sheets, ballot papers and other sensitive electoral
materials made available by the Commission for the conduct of the election
shall be invalid.
A 382 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(3) A Presiding officer who intentionally announces or signs any election
result in violation of subsection (2) commits an offence and is liable on conviction
to a fine of N10,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of at least one year or both.
Access to 74.—(1) The Resident Electoral Commissioner in a state where an
election election is conducted shall, within 14 days after an application is made to him
documents.
by any of the parties to an election petition, cause a certified true copy of such
document to be issued to the said party.
(2) Any Resident Electoral Commissioner who willfully fails to comply
with the provisions in subsection (1) commits an offence and is liable on
conviction to a maximum fine of N2,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of 12
months or both.
PART V—POLITICAL PARTIES
75.—(1) Any political association that complies with the provisions of
Powers of
the the Constitution and this Act for the purposes of registration shall be registered
Commission as a political party :
to register
PROVIDED however, that such application for registration as a political party
political
parties. shall be duly submitted to the Commission not later than 12 months before a
general election.
Cap. C23,
LFN, 2004
(2) The Commission shall, on receipt of the documents in fulfillment of
the conditions stipulated by the Constitution, immediately issue the applicant
with a letter of acknowledgement stating that all the necessary documents
had been submitted to the Commission.
(3) If the association has not fulfilled all the conditions under this section,
the commission shall within 90 days from the receipt of its application notify
the association in writing stating the reasons for non-registration.
(4) A political association that meets the conditions stipulated in the
Constitution and this Act shall be registered by the Commission as a political
party within 60 days from the date of receipt of the application, and if after the
60 days such association is not registered by the Commission, unless the
Commission informs the association to the contrary, it shall be deemed to have
been registered.
(5) An association, its executive members or principal officer who gives
false or misleading information, commit an offence and is liable on conviction,
in the case of —
(a) the association to a fine of N5,000,000 ; and
(b) each executive or principal officer of the association to a fine of
N3,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of at least two years or both.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 383
(6) An application for registration as a political party shall not be
processed unless there is evidence of payment of administrative fee as
may be fixed by the Commission.
76. The decision of the Commission not to register any association Decision
as a political party may be challenged in the Federal High Court, provided of the
Commission
that any legal action challenging the decision of the Commission shall be
subject to
commenced within 14 days from the date of receipt of the decision on
judicial
non-registration from the Commission. review.
77.—(1) A political party registered under this Act shall be a body Political
corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and parties to
be bodies
be sued in its corporate name.
corporate.
(2) Every registered political party shall maintain a register of its
members in both hard and soft copy.
(3) Each political party shall make such register available to the
Commission not later than 30 days before the date fixed for the party
primaries, congresses or convention.
78.—(1) Any political party or association, which contravenes the Contravention
provisions of section 227 of the Constitution, commits an offence and is of section
227 of the
liable on conviction to a fine of —
1999
(a) N5,000,000 for the first offence ; Constitution.
(b) N7,000,000 for any subsequent offence ; and
(c) N500,000 for every day that the offence continues.
(2) Any person or group of persons who aids or abets a political Cap. C23,
party in contravening the provisions of section 227 of the Constitution LFN, 2004
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of N5,000,000 or
imprisonment for a term of five years or both.
79.—(1) The Commission shall keep a register of symbols and name Symbols of
for use at elections. political
parties.
(2) The Commission shall register the symbol and name of a political
party if it is satisfied that—
(a) no other symbol and name of the same design is registered ;
(b) the symbol and name is distinctive from any other symbol already
registered ; and
(c) its use will not be offensive or otherwise objectionable.
(3) The Commission shall remove a symbol or name from the register
of symbols and names if the Commission is of the opinion that the political
party in whose name the symbol is registered has ceased to exist or to use
the symbol “and names”.
A 384 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(4) Nothing in this section shall authorise the allotment or registration
for use at any election of a symbol or material as symbol of a party, if it
portrays—
(a) the Coat of Arms of the Federation ;
(b) the Coat of Arms of any other country ;
(c) a device or emblem which in the opinion of the Commission is
normally associated with—
(i) the official acts of Government,
(ii) any of the Armed Forces of the Federation or the Nigeria Police
Force or other uniformed service,
(iii) the regalia of a Chief,
(iv) any tribe or ethnic group,
(v) any religion or cult, or
(vi) any portrait of a person living or dead ; or
(d) any symbol or part of a symbol which under the provision of this
section continues to be registered by another political party.
(5) Subject to the provisions of this section, the symbol allotted to a
political party and in use immediately before the coming into force of this Act
shall continue to be available to, and be used by, that political party without
payment of the fee.
(6) Where a political party is deregistered, no political association shall
be permitted to use the name, symbol, logo or acronym of the deregistered
political party within five years of deregistration.
Allocation 80. Where a symbol is registered by a political party in accordance with
of symbols. this Act, the Commission shall allot the symbol to any candidate sponsored by
the political party at any election.
Merger of 81.—(1) Any two or more registered political parties may merge on
political approval by the Commission following a formal request presented to the
parties.
Commission by the political parties for that purpose.
(2) Political parties intending to merge shall each give to the Commission
nine months’ notice of their intention to do so before a general election.
(3) The written request for merger shall be sent to the Chairman of the
Commission and shall be signed jointly by the National Chairman, Secretary
and Treasurer for the time being of the different political parties proposing the
merger and shall be accompanied by—
(a) a special resolution passed by the national convention of each of the
political parties proposing to merge, approving the merger ;
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 385
(b) the proposed full name and acronym, Constitution, manifesto,
symbol or logo of the party together with the addresses of the national
office of the party resulting from the merger ; and
(c) evidence of payment of administrative fee as may be fixed by
the Commission.
(4) On receipt of the request for merger of political parties the
Commission shall consider the request, and if the parties have fulfilled the
requirements of the Constitution and this Act, approve the proposed merger
and communicate its decision to the parties concerned before the expiration
of 60 days from the date of receipt of the formal request:Provided that
where the Commission fails to communicate its decision within 60 days,
the parties shall within 14 days thereafter challenge the decision of the
Commission at the court and establish by cogent and verifiable reason
that they have met all the constitutional requirements for merger.
(5) Where the request for the proposed merger is approved, the
Commission shall withdraw and cancel the certificates of registration of
all the political parties opting for the merger and substitute a single
certificate of registration in the name of the party resulting from the merger.
82.—(1) Every registered political party shall give the Commission Notice of
at least 21 days’ notice of any convention, congress, conference or meeting convention
and
convened for the purpose of “merger” and electing members of its
congress.
executive committees, other governing bodies or nominating candidates
for any of the elective offices specified under this Act.
(2) The Commission may, with or without prior notice to the political
party attend and observe any convention, congress, conference or meeting
which is convened by a political party for the purpose of —
(a) electing members of its executive committees or other governing
bodies ;
(b) nominating candidates for an election at any level ; and
(c) approving a merger with any other registered political party.
(3) The election of members of the executive committee or other
governing body of a political party, including the election to fill a vacant
position in any of the aforesaid bodies, shall be conducted in a democratic
manner and allowing for all members of the party or duly elected delegates
to vote in support of a candidate of their choice.
(4) Notice of any congress, conference or meeting for the purpose
of nominating candidates for Area Council elections shall be given to the
Commission at least 21 days before such congress, conference or meeting.
A 386 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(5) Failure of a political party to notify the Commission as stated in
subsection (1) shall render the convention, congress, conference or meeting
invalid.
Monitoring 83.—(1) The Commission shall keep records of the activities of all the
of political registered political parties.
parties.
(2) The Commission may seek information or clarification from any
registered political party in connection with any activities of the political party
which may be contrary to the provisions of the Constitution or any other law,
guidelines, rules or regulations made pursuant to an Act of the National
Assembly.
Cap. C23, (3) The Commission may direct its enquiry under subsection (2) to the
LFN, 2004 Chairman or Secretary of the political party at the national, state, local
government or area council or ward level, as the case may be.
(4) A political party which fails to provide the required information or
clarification under subsection (2) or carry out any lawful directive given by
the Commission in conformity with the provisions of this section is liable to a
fine not more than N1,000,000.
Nomination 84.—(1) A political party seeking to nominate candidates for elections
of candidates under this Act shall hold primaries for aspirants to all elective positions which
by parties. shall be monitored by the Commission.
(2) The procedure for the nomination of candidates by political parties
for the various elective positions shall be by direct, indirect primaries or
consensus.
Qualifications of Aspirants and Candidates
(3) A political party shall not impose nomination qualification or
Cap. C23
LFN, 2004 disqualification criteria, measures, or conditions on any aspirant or candidate
for any election in its constitution, guidelines, or rules for nomination of
candidates for elections, except as prescribed under sections 65, 66, 106, 107,
131, 137, 177 and 187 of the Constitution.
Direct Primaries
(4) A political party that adopts the direct primaries procedure shall
ensure that all aspirants are given equal opportunity of being voted for by
members of the party and shall adopt the procedure outlined—
(a) in the case of presidential primaries, all registered members of the
party shall vote for aspirants of their choice at a designated centre at each
ward of the Federation ;
(b) the procedure under paragraph (a) shall be adopted for direct
primaries in respect of Gubernatorial, Senatorial, Federal and State
Constituencies ;
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 387
(c) Special conventions or congresses shall be held to ratify the candidate
with the highest number of votes at designated centres at the National,
State, Senatorial, Federal and State Constituencies, as the case may be.
Indirect Primaries
(5) A political party that adopts the system of indirect primaries for the
choice of its candidate shall adopt the procedure outlined—
(a) in the case of nominations to the position of Presidential candidate,
the—
(i) political party shall hold a special presidential convention at a
designated centre in the Federal Capital Territory or any other place within
the Federation that is agreed to by the National Executive Committee of
the party where delegates shall vote for aspirants of their choice,
(ii) aspirant with the highest number of votes cast at the end of voting
shall be declared the winner of the presidential primaries of the political
party and that aspirant’s name shall be forwarded to the Commission as
the candidate of the party ;
(b) in the case of nominations to the position of a Governorship candidate,
the political party shall, where it intends to sponsor candidates—
(i) hold a special congress in the State Capital or any other place
within the State with delegates voting for aspirants of their choice at the
congress to be held on a specified date appointed by the National
Executive Committee (NEC) of the party, and
(ii) the aspirant with the highest number of votes cast at the end of
voting shall be declared the winner of the primaries of the party and the
aspirant’s name shall be forwarded to the Commission as the candidate
of the party, for the particular State ;
(c) in the case of nominations to the position of a Senatorial candidate, a
Member of the House of Representatives and a Member of a State House
of Assembly, the political party shall, where it intends to sponsor
candidates—
(i) hold special congresses in the Senatorial District, Federal
Constituency and the State Assembly Constituency respectively, with
delegates voting for aspirants of their choice in designated centres on
specified dates, and
(ii) the aspirant with the highest number of votes cast at the end of
voting shall be declared the winner of the primaries of the party and the
aspirant’s name shall be forwarded to the Commission as the candidate
of the party ;
A 388 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(d) in the case of the position of a Chairmanship candidate of an Area
Council, the political party shall, where it intends to sponsor a candidate—
(i) hold special congresses in the Area Councils, with delegates voting
for aspirants of their choice at designated centres on a specified date, and
(ii) the aspirant with the highest number of votes cast at the end of
voting shall be declared the winner of the primaries of the party and the
aspirant’s name shall be forwarded to the Commission as the candidate
of the party.
(6) In the case of a Councillorship candidate, the procedure for the
nomination of the candidate shall be by direct primaries in the ward, and the
name of the candidate with the highest number of votes cast shall be submitted
to the Commission as the candidate of the party.
(7) Where there is only one aspirant or a consensus candidate in a
political party for any of the elective positions mentioned in subsection (5) (a),
(b), (c) and (d), the party shall convene a special convention or congress at a
designated centre on a specified date for the confirmation of such aspirant
and the name of the aspirant shall be forwarded to the Commission as the
candidate of the party.
(8) A political party that adopts the system of indirect primaries for the
choice of its candidate shall clearly outline in its constitution and rule the
procedure for the democratic election of delegates to vote at the convention,
congress or meeting.
Consensus Candidate
(9) A political party that adopts a consensus candidate shall secure the
written consent of all cleared aspirants for the position, indicating their voluntary
withdrawal from the race and their endorsement of the consensus candidate.
(10) Where a political party is unable to secure the written consent of all
cleared aspirants for the purpose of a consensus candidate, it shall revert to
the choice of direct or indirect primaries for the nomination of candidates for
the aforesaid elective positions.
(11) A special convention or nomination congress shall be held to ratify
the choice of consensus candidates at designated centres at the National,
State, Senatorial, Federal and State Constituencies, as the case may be.
Political Appointee not Eligible as a Voting Delegate or Aspirant
(12) No political appointee at any level shall be a voting delegate or be
voted for at the Convention or Congress of any political party for the purpose
of the nomination of candidates for any election.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 389
(13) Where a political party fails to comply with the provisions of this
Act in the conduct of its primaries, its candidate for election shall not be
included in the election for the particular position in issue.
(14) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act or rules of a political
party, an aspirant who complains that any of the provisions of this Act and the
guidelines of a political party have not been complied with in the selection or
nomination of a candidate of a political party for election, may apply to the
Federal High Court for redress.
(15) Nothing in this section shall empower the Courts to stop the
holding of primaries or general elections under this Act pending the
determination of a suit.
85. Any political party that— Offences in
relation to
(a) holds or possesses any fund outside Nigeria in contravention of section
finances of a
225 (3) (a) of the Constitution, commits an offence and shall on conviction
political
forfeit the funds or assets purchased with such funds to the Commission party.
and in addition may be liable to a fine of at least N5,000,000 ; or
(b) retains any fund or other asset remitted to it from outside Nigeria in Cap. C23,
contravention of section 225 (3) (a) of the Constitution commits an offence LFN, 2004
and shall on conviction forfeit the funds or assets to the Commission and in
addition may be liable to a fine of at least N5,000,000.
86.—(1) Every political party shall submit to the Commission a detailed Period to be
annual statement of assets and liabilities and analysis of its sources of funds and covered by
annual
other assets, together with statement of its expenditure including hard and soft
statement.
copy of its list of members or in such a form as the Commission may require.
(2) Any official of the political party who contravenes subsection (1)
commits an offence and is liable to a fine of N1,000,000 or imprisonment for
a term of six months or both.
(3) A political party shall grant to any officer authorised in writing by the
Commission, access to examine the records and audited accounts kept by the
political party in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the political
party shall give to the officer all such information as may be requested in
relation to all contributions received by or on behalf of the party.
(4) The Commission shall publish the report on such examinations and
audit in two national newspapers and Commission’s website within 30 days of
receipt of the results.
87.—(1) The Commission shall have power to place limitation on the Power to
amount of money or other assets which an individual can contribute to a limit
contribution
political party or candidate and to demand such information on the amount
to a political
donated and source of the funds.
party.
A 390 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(2) Any individual, candidate or political party who exceeds the limit
placed by the Commission in subsection (1), commits an offence and is liable
on conviction to—
(a) in case of a political party, a fine not more than N10,000,000 and
forfeiture of the amount donated ; and
(b) in case of an individual, a fine of five times the amount donated in
excess of the limit placed by the Commission.
Limitation 88.—(1) Election expenses shall not exceed the sum stipulated in
on election subsections (2)-(7).
expenses
(2) The maximum election expenses to be incurred by a candidate at a
presidential election shall not exceed N5,000,000,000.
(3) The maximum amount of election expenses to be incurred by a
candidate in respect of governorship election shall not exceed N1,000,000,000.
(4) The maximum amount of election expenses to be incurred by a
candidate in respect of Senatorial and House of Representatives seat shall not
exceed N100,000,000 and N70,000,000 respectively.
(5) In the case of State Assembly election, the maximum amount of
election expenses to be incurred by a candidate shall not exceed N30,000,000.
(6) In the case of a chairmanship election to an Area Council, the
maximum amount of election expenses to be incurred by a candidate shall not
exceed N30,000,000.
(7) In the case of Councillorship election to an Area Council, the maximum
amount of election expenses to be incurred by a candidate shall not exceed
N5,000,000.
(8) No individual or other entity shall donate to a candidate more than
N50,000,000.
(9) A candidate who knowingly acts in contravention of this section,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of 1% of the amount
permitted as the limit of campaign expenditure under this Act or imprisonment
for a term not more than 12 months or both.
(10) Any individual who knowingly acts in contravention of subsection
(9) is liable on conviction to a maximum fine of N500,000 or imprisonment for
a term of nine months or both.
(11) An accountant who falsifies, or conspires or aids a candidate to
forge or falsify a document relating to his expenditure at an election or receipt
or donation for the election or in any way aids and abets the contravention of
the provisions of this section commits an offence and is liable on conviction to
a fine of N3,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of three years or both.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 391
89.—(1) For the purposes of an election, “election expenses” means Election
expenses incurred by a political party within the period from the date notice is expenses of
political
given by the Commission to conduct an election up to and including, the polling
parties.
day in respect of the particular election.
(2) Election expenses incurred by a political party for the management
or the conduct of an election shall be determined by the Commission in
consultation with the political parties.
(3) Election expenses of a political party shall be submitted to the
Commission in a separate audited return within six months after the election
and such return shall be signed by the political party’s auditors and countersigned
by the Chairman of the party and be supported by a sworn affidavit by the
signatories as to the correctness of its contents.
(4) A political party which contravenes subsection (3) commits an offence
and is liable on conviction to a maximum fine of N1,000,000 and in the case of
failure to submit an accurate audited return within the stipulated period, the
court may impose a maximum penalty of N200,000 per day on any party for
the period after the return was due until it is submitted to the Commission.
(5) The return referred to in subsection (3) shall show the amount of
money expended by or on behalf of the party on election expenses, the items
of expenditure and commercial value of goods and services received for election
purposes.
(6) The political party shall cause the return submitted to the Commission
under subsection (3) to be published in at least two national newspapers and
official website of the party.
(7) Any political party that incurs election expenses beyond the limit set
in subsection (2) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a maximum
fine of N1,000,000 and forfeiture to the Commission, of the amount by which
the expenses exceed the limit set by the Commission.
(8) The Commission shall make available for public inspection during
regular business hours at its headquarters and state offices the audited returns
of the political parties required by subsection (3) which shall include the names,
addresses, occupation, and amount contributed by each contributor to a party.
90.—(1) A political party shall not accept or keep in its possession any Disclosure
anonymous monetary or other contribution, gift or property, from any source. by political
parties.
(2) A political party shall keep an account and asset book into which
shall be recorded—
(a) all monetary and other forms of contributions received by the
party ; and
A 392 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(b) the name and address of any person or entity that contributes any
money or asset which exceeds N1,000,000.
(3) A political party shall not accept any monetary or other contribution
which is more than N50,000,000 unless it can identify the source of the money
or other contribution to the Commission.
(4) A political party sponsoring the election of a candidate shall, within
three months after the announcement of the results of the election, file a
report of the contributions made by individuals and entities to the Commission.
Conduct at 91.—(1) The Commissioner of Police in each State of the Federation
political and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, shall provide adequate security for
rallies and
proper and peaceful conduct of political rallies and processions in their
processions.
respective jurisdictions and, for this purpose, the Police may be supported by
the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps and any other security agency
of the Federal Government.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), a person shall be deemed to be
acting in pursuance of a lawful duty if he is acting in his capacity as a police
officer or as a member of a security agency authorised to carry arms and is
specifically posted to be present at that political rally or procession.
Act No. 2, (3) Notwithstanding any provision in the Police Act, the Public Order
2020. Act and any regulation made thereunder or any other law to the contrary, the
role of the Nigerian Police Force and the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence
Corps and any other security agency of the Federal Government in political
rallies, processions and meetings shall be limited to the provision of adequate
security as provided in subsection (1).
Cap. P42, (4) No registered political party in Nigeria, its aspirants or candidate
LFN 2004 shall be prevented from holding rallies, processions or meetings at any time
for their constitutional political purposes, and the Police shall in a consultative
manner, resolve any conflict of time and venue between and amongst parties
where such arises.
Prohibition 92.—(1) A political campaign or slogan shall not be tainted with abusive
of certain language directly or indirectly likely to injure religious, ethnic, tribal or sectional
conduct at
feelings.
political
campaigns. (2) Abusive, intemperate, slanderous or base language or insinuations
or innuendoes designed or likely to provoke violent reaction or emotions shall
not be employed or used in political campaigns.
(3) Places designated for religious worship, police stations, and public
offices shall not be used—
(a) for political campaigns, rallies and processions ; or
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 393
(b) to promote, propagate or attack political parties, candidates or their
programmes or ideologies.
(4) Masquerades shall not be employed or used by any political party,
aspirant or candidate during political campaigns or for any other political purpose.
(5) A political party, aspirant or candidate of a political party shall not
retain, organise, train or equip any person or group of persons for the purpose
of enabling them to be employed for the use or display of physical force or
coercion in promoting any political objective or interest, or in such manner as
to arouse reasonable apprehension that they are organised, trained or equipped
for that purpose.
(6) A political party, aspirant or candidate shall not keep or use armed
private security organisation, vanguard or any other group or individual by
whatever name called for the purpose of providing security, assisting or aiding
the political party or candidate in whatever manner during campaigns, rallies,
processions or elections.
(7) A political party, aspirant or candidate that contravenes any of the
provisions of this section commits an offence and is liable on conviction—
(a) in the case of an aspirant or candidate, to a maximum fine of
N1,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of 12 months ; and
(b) in the case of a political party, to a fine of N2,000,000 in the first
instance, and N1,000,000 for any subsequent offence.
(8) A person or group of persons who aids or abets a political party, an
aspirant or a candidate in contravening the provisions of subsection (5), commits
an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of N500,000 or imprisonment
for a term of three years or both.
93. (1) A party, candidate, aspirant, or person or group of persons shall Prohibition
not directly or indirectly threaten any person with the use of force or violence of use of
force or
during any political campaign in order to compel that person or any other
violence
person to support or refrain from supporting a political party or candidate.
during
political
(2) A political party, candidate, aspirant, person or group of persons that
campaign.
contravenes the provisions of this section commits an offence and is liable on
conviction—
(a) in the case of a candidate, aspirant, or person or group of persons,
to a maximum fine of N1,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of 12
months ; and
(b) in the case of a political party, to a fine of N2,000,000 in the first
instance, and N500,000 for any subsequent offence.
A 394 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
Limitation 94.—(1) For the purpose of this Act, the period of campaigning in public
on political by every political party shall commence 150 days before polling day and end
broadcast
24 hours prior to that day.
and
campaign by (2) A registered political party which through any person acting on its
political
behalf during the 24 hours before polling day—
parties.
(a) advertises on the facilities of any broadcasting undertaking ; or
(b) procures for publication or acquiesces in the publication of an
advertisement in a newspaper, for the purpose of promoting or opposing a
particular candidate, commits an offence under this Act and is liable on
conviction to a maximum fine of N500,000.
Campaign 95.—(1) A candidate and his or her party shall campaign for the elections
for election. in accordance with such rules and regulations as may be determined by the
Commission.
(2) State apparatus including the media shall not be employed to the
advantage or disadvantage of any political party or candidate at any election.
(3) Media time shall be allocated equally among the political parties or
candidates at similar hours of the day.
(4) At any public electronic media, equal airtime shall be allotted to all
political parties or candidates during prime times at similar hours each day,
subject to the payment of appropriate fees.
(5) At any public print media, equal coverage and visibility shall be
allotted to all political parties.
(6) A person who contravenes subsections (3) and (4) commits an offence
and is liable on conviction, in the case of —
(a) a public media, to a fine of N2,000,000 in the first instance and
N5,000,000 for subsequent conviction ; and
(b) principal officers and other officers of the media house, to a fine of
N1,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of six months.
Prohibition 96.—(1) A person, print or electronic medium that broadcasts, publishes,
of broadcast, advertises or circulates any material for the purpose of promoting or opposing
24 hours
a particular political party or the election of a particular candidate over the
preceding or
radio, television, newspaper, magazine, handbills, or any print or electronic
on polling
day. media whatsoever called within twenty four hours immediately preceding or
on polling day commits an offence under this Act.
(2) Where an offence under subsection (1) is committed by a body
corporate, the principal officers of that body shall be deemed to have equally
committed the same offence.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 395
(3) A person convicted of an offence under this section is liable—
(a) in the case of a body corporate to a maximum fine of N1,000,000 ; and
(b) in the case of an individual to a maximum fine of N1,000,000 or to
imprisonment for a term of six months or both.
97.—(1) A candidate, person or association that engages in campaigning Campaign
or broadcasting based on religious, tribal, or sectional reason for the purpose based on
of promoting or opposing a particular political party or the election of a particular religion or
tribe.
candidate, commits an offence under this Act and is liable on conviction—
(a) to a maximum fine of N1,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of 12
months or both ; and
(b) in the case of a political party, to a maximum fine of N10,000,000.
PART VI—PROCEDURE FOR ELECTION TO AREA COUNCIL
98.—(1) The conduct of elections into the offices of Chairman, Vice Powers of
Chairman and a member of an Area Council and the recall of a member of an the
Commission.
Area Council shall be under the direction and supervision of the Commission
in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
(2) The register of voters compiled and the polling units established by
the Commission and any other regulations, guidelines, rules or manuals issued
or made by the Commission shall be used for elections into the Area Councils
or recall of a member.
99.—(1) There shall be elected for each Area Council in the Federal Election to
Capital Territory a Chairman and Vice-Chairman. offices of
Chairman,
(2) There shall be a Councilor for each Electoral Ward in an Area Vice-
Council of the Federal Capital Territory. Chairman
and
Councilors.
100.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, the Commission shall Division of
divide each Area Council into registration areas or Electoral Wards not being Area Council
into
less than 10 and not more than 20 as the circumstance of each Area Council
registration
may require.
area.
(2) The boundaries of each registration area or Electoral Ward shall be
such that the number of inhabitants of the registration area or Electoral Ward
is as nearly equal to the population quota as is reasonably practicable.
(3) The Commission shall review the division of every Area Council at
intervals of not less than 10 years and may alter such registration area or
Electoral Ward in accordance with subsection (1) to such extent as it may
consider desirable in the light of the review.
A 396 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
Cap. C23, (4) Notwithstanding subsection (3), the Commission may, at any time,
LFN, 2004. carry out such a review and alter the Electoral Ward in accordance with the
provisions of this section to such extent as it considers necessary in
consequence of any amendment to section 3 of the Constitution or any provision
replacing that provision or by reason of the holding of a national population
census or pursuant to an Act of the National Assembly.
Qualification. 101. A person shall be qualified for election under this Part of this Act
if he or she—
(a) is a citizen of Nigeria ;
(b) is registered as a voter ;
(c) has attained the age of 25 years for Councillor and 30 years for
Chairman and Vice Chairman ;
(d) is educated up to at least School Certificate level or its equivalent ; and
(e) is a member of a political party and is sponsored by that party.
Disqualification. 102.—(1) A person shall not be qualified to contest an Area Council
Cap. C23, election under this Act if he or she—
LFN, 2004
(a) subject to the provisions of section 28 of the Constitution, has
voluntarily acquired the citizenship of a country other than Nigeria or, except
in such cases as may be prescribed by the National Assembly, has made a
declaration of allegiance to such a country ;
(b) is adjudged to be a lunatic or otherwise declared to be of unsound
mind under any law in force in any part of Nigeria ;
(c) is under a sentence of death imposed on him or her by any competent
court of law or tribunal in Nigeria ;
(d) within a period of less than 10 years before the date of an election to the
Area Council, has been convicted and sentenced for an offence involving
dishonesty or has been found guilty of contravention of the Code of Conduct ;
(e) is an undischarged bankrupt, having been adjudged or otherwise
declared bankrupt under any law in force in any part of Nigeria ;
(f ) is a person employed in the public service of the Federation or of
any State or Area Council, other than a person holding elective office, and
has not resigned, withdrawn or retired from such employment 30 days
before the date of election ;
(g) is a member of any secret society ;
(h) has within the preceding period of 10 years presented a forged
certificate to the Commission ;
(i) has been dismissed from the public service of the Federation, State,
Local Government or Area Council ; or
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 397
(j) has been elected to such office at any two previous elections in the
case of Chairman.
(2) Where in respect of any person who has been—
(a) adjudged to be a lunatic ;
(b) declared to be of unsound mind ;
(c) sentenced to death or imprisonment ; or
(d) adjudged or declared bankrupt,
any appeal against the decision is pending in any court of law in accordance
with any law in force in Nigeria, subsection (1) shall not apply during a period
beginning from the date when such appeal is lodged and ending on the date
when the appeal is finally determined or, as the case may be, the appeal
lapses or is abandoned, whichever is earlier.
(3) For the purpose of subsection (2), an “appeal” includes any
application for an injunction or an order of certiorari, mandamus, prohibition,
or habeas corpus, or any appeal from any such application.
103.—(1) Election into all the Area Councils shall be held on the same Date of Area
date and day throughout the Federal Capital Territory. Council
elections and
(2) Bye-elections to fill vacancies that occur in Area Councils shall be
method of
held within 30 days from the date the vacancy occurred. voting.
(3) The date mentioned in subsection (1) shall not be earlier than 150
days before and not later than 30 days before the expiration of the term of
office of the last holder of that office.
(4) Where a vacancy occurs more than three months before the day the
Area Council stands dissolved there shall be a bye-election to fill the vacancy
not later than 30 days from the date the vacancy occurred.
(5) Voting shall be by open-secret ballot.
104. The procedure for filing nominations and the casting and counting Procedure
of votes for Area Council elections shall be the same as is applicable to other for Area
elections under this Act. Council
elections.
105.—(1) If after the expiration of time for the delivery of nomination Procedure
papers and the withdrawal of candidates for election of Councillors under this for
Act only one candidate remains duly nominated, that candidate shall be declared nomination.
returned unopposed.
(2) If after the expiration of time for the delivery of nomination papers
and the withdrawal of candidates for election of Councillors under this section
more than one candidate remains duly nominated, a poll shall be taken in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.
A 398 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(3) Where at the close of nomination for election to the office of
Chairman, only one candidate—
(a) has been nominated ; or
(b) remains nominated by reason of the disqualification, withdrawal,
incapacitation, disappearance, or death of the other candidate, the
Commission shall extend the time for nomination by seven days :
Provided that where after the extension, only one candidate remains validly
nominated there shall be no further extension.
Election of 106.—(1) A candidate for an election to the office of Chairman shall be
Area deemed to have been duly elected to the office where being the only candidate
Council
nominated for the election he or she has—
Chairman
(a) a majority of YES votes over NO votes cast at the election ; and
(b) not less than one-third of the votes cast at the election in each of at
least two-thirds of all the wards in the Area Council :
Provided that where the only candidate fails to be elected in accordance with
this subsection then there shall be fresh nomination.
(2) A candidate for an election to the office of the Chairman shall be
deemed to have been elected where there being only two candidates for the
election he has—
(a) a majority of the votes cast at the election ; and
(b) not less than one-quarter of the votes cast at the election in each of
at least two-thirds of all the wards in the Area Council, as the case may be.
(3) If no candidate is duly elected under subsection (2), the Commission
shall within 14 days conduct a second election between the two candidates,
and the candidate who scored the majority of votes cast at the election shall
be deemed duly elected at the election.
(4) A candidate for an election to the office of Chairman shall be deemed
to have been duly elected where, there being more than two candidates for
the election, he or she has—
(a) the highest number of votes cast at the election ; and
(b) not less than one-quarter of the votes cast at the election in each of
at least two-thirds of all wards in the Area Council, as the case may be.
(5) If no candidate is duly elected in accordance with subsection (4),
there shall be a second election in accordance with subsection (6) at which
the only candidates shall be—
(a) the candidate who scored the highest number of votes at the election
held under subsection (4) ; and
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 399
(b) one among the remaining candidates who has the majority of votes
in the highest number of wards so however that where there are more than
one candidate, the one among them with the highest total number of votes
cast at the election shall be the second candidate for the election.
(6) In default of a candidate duly elected under the foregoing subsections,
the Commission shall within 14 days of the result of the election held under
the said subsections arrange for another election between the two candidates
and a candidate at such an election shall be deemed to have been duly elected
to the office of a Chairman of the Area Council if he or she has—
(a) a majority of the votes cast at the election ; and
(b) not less than one-quarter of the votes cast at the election in each of
at least two-thirds of all the wards in the Area Council, as the case may be.
(7) If no candidate is duly elected under subsection (6), arrangements
shall be made within 14 days of the result of the previous election, for another
election between the two candidates specified in subsection (6), and a candidate
at this last election shall be deemed duly elected to the office of Chairman of
the Area Council if he scores a simple majority of votes cast at the election.
107.—(1) If a person duly elected as Chairman dies before taking and Death of
subscribing to the Oath of Allegiance and Oath of Office, the person elected Chairman or
Vice-
with him or her as Vice-Chairman shall be sworn in as Chairman who shall
Chairman
then nominate and with the approval of a majority of the members of the Area
before oath
Legislative Council appoint a new Vice-Chairman. of office
(2) Where the Vice-Chairman is appointed from among the Councilors
as the new Vice-Chairman, the Commission shall conduct a bye-election to fill
the vacant seat created in the Ward from which the new Vice-Chairman has
been appointed.
(3) Where the persons duly elected as Chairman and Vice-Chairman of
an Area Council die before taking and subscribing the Oath of Allegiance and
Oath of Office during which period the Area Council has not been inaugurated
the Commission shall within 21 days conduct an election to fill the vacancies.
(4) If, after the commencement of poll and before the announcement of
the final result and declaration of a winner, a nominated candidate dies—
(a) the Commission shall, being satisfied of the fact of the death, suspend
the election for a period not exceeding 21 days ; and
(b) in the case of election into a legislative House, the election shall start
afresh and the political party whose candidate died may, if it intends to
continue to participate in the election, conduct a fresh primary within 14
days of the death of its candidate and submit the name of a new candidate
to the Commission to replace the dead candidate :
A 400 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
Provided that in the case of Area Council Chairmanship election, the running
mate of the deceased candidate shall continue with the election and nominate
a new running mate.
Dissolution 108.—(1) An Area Council shall stand dissolved at the expiration of a
of Area period of four years commencing from the date when the—
Council.
(a) Chairman took the oath of office ; or
(b) legislative arm of the Council was inaugurated, whichever is earlier.
(2) In the determination of the four years term, where a re-run election
has taken place and the person earlier sworn in wins the re-run election, the
time spent in office before the date the election was annulled, shall be taken
into account.
Vacation of 109.—(1) A member of an Area Council shall vacate his or her seat in
seat of the Council—
members.
(a) on the date given in his or her letter of resignation ;
(b) if he or she takes up full time paid employment at any level of the
government or in the private sector ;
(c) if he or she becomes a member of a secret society or does any other
thing disqualifying him or her from holding the office of Chairman or
Councillor under this Act ; or
(d) if the Leader of the Area Legislative Council receives a certificate
under the hand of the Commission stating that the provisions of section 113
of this Act have been complied with in respect of the recall of that member.
(2) The Leader of the Area Legislative Council shall give effect to
subsection (1), so that the Leader shall first present evidence satisfactory to
the Area Council that any of the provisions of that subsection has become
applicable in respect of that member.
Removal of 110.—(1) The Chairman or Vice-Chairman may be removed from office
Chairman or in accordance with the provision of this section.
Vice-
Chairman. (2) Whenever a notice of any allegation of gross misconduct in writing
signed by not less than one-third of the members of the Area Legislative
Council stating that the holder of the office of Chairman or Vice-Chairman is
guilty of misconduct in the performance of the functions of his office, detailed
particulars shall be specified and presented to the Speaker of the Area
Legislative Council.
(3) The Leader of the Area Legislative Council shall, within seven days
of the notice, cause a copy of the notice to be served on the holder of the
office and each member of the Area Legislative Council and shall also cause
any statement made in reply to the allegation by the holder of the office to be
served on each member of the Area Legislative Council.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 401
(4) Within 14 days of the presentation of the notice, whether or not any
statement was made by the holder of the office in reply to the allegation
contained in the notice, the Area Legislative Council, shall resolve by motion
without any debate whether or not the allegation shall be investigated.
(5) A motion of the Area Legislative Council that the allegation be
investigated shall not be declared as having been passed unless it is supported
by the votes of not less than two-thirds majority of all the members of the
Area Legislative Council.
(6) Within seven days of the passing of a motion under subsection (4),
the Leader of the Area Legislative Council shall inform the Chief Judge of the
Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, who shall appoint a panel of seven persons
who, in the opinion of the Chief Judge, are of unquestionable integrity not
being members of —
(a) any public or civil service ;
(b) a legislative house ; or
(c) a political party, to investigate the allegation as provided in this section.
(7) The holder of an office whose conduct is being investigated under
this section shall have the right to defend his or herself in person or be
represented before the panel by a legal practitioner of his or her own choice.
(8) A panel appointed under this section shall—
(a) have such powers and exercise its functions in accordance with
such procedure as may be prescribed by an Act of the National
Assembly ; and
(b) within three months of its appointment, report its findings to the Area
Legislative Council.
(9) Where the panel reports to the Area Legislative Council that the
allegation has not been proven, no further proceedings shall be taken in respect
of the matter.
(10) Where the report of the panel is that the allegation against the
holder of the office has been proved, then within 14 days of the receipt of the
report, the Area Legislative Council shall consider the report and if by a
resolution of the Area Legislative Council supported by not less than two-
thirds majority of all its members the report of the panel is adopted, then the
holder of the office shall stand removed from office as from the date of the
adoption of the report.
A 402 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
Permanent 111—(1) The Chairman or Vice-Chairman of an Area Council shall
incapacity of cease to hold office if —
Chairman or
Vice- (a) by resolution passed by two-thirds majority of all members of the
Chairman of Executive Council of the Area Council, it is declared that the Chairman
an Area or Vice-Chairman is incapable of discharging the functions of his or her
Council.
office ; and
(b) the declaration in paragraph (a) is verified, after such medical
examination panel established under subsection (4) in its report to the
Speaker of the Area Legislative Council.
(2) Where the medical panel certifies in its report that, in its opinion, the
Chairman or Vice-Chairman is suffering from such infirmity of body or mind
as renders him permanently incapable of performing the functions of his office,
a notice signed by the Speaker of the Area Legislative Council shall be published
in the Official Gazette of the Area Council.
(3) The Chairman or Vice-Chairman shall cease to hold office as from
the date of publication of the notice of the medical report under subsection (2).
(4) The medical panel to which this section relates shall be appointed by
the Speaker of the Area Legislative Council and shall consist of five medical
practitioners in Nigeria—
(a) one of whom shall be the personal physician of the holder of the
office concerned ; and
(b) four other medical practitioners who have, in the opinion of the
Speaker of the Area Legislative Council, attained a high degree of eminence
in the field of medicine relative to the nature of examination to be conducted
in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(5) In this section, the reference to “Executive Council of the Area
Council” is a reference to the body of Supervisory Councilors of the Area
Council, established by the Chairman and charged with such responsibility for
the functions of government as the Chairman may direct.
Performance 112.—(1) The Vice Chairman of an Area Council shall hold the office
of functions
of the Chairman of the Area Council if the office of the Chairman becomes
of Chairman
vacant by reason of death, resignation, permanent incapacity or removal of
or Vice-
Chairman of the Chairman from office for any other reason in accordance with section 110
an Area or 111 of this Act.
Council.
(2) Where any vacancy occurs in the circumstances mentioned in
subsection (1) during a period when the office of Vice-Chairman of the Area
Council is also vacant, the Speaker of the Area Legislative Council shall hold
office of the Chairman of the Area Council for a term of not less than three
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 403
months, during which there shall be an election of a new Chairman of the
Area Council who shall hold office for the unexpired term of office of the last
holder of the office.
(3) Where the office of the Vice-Chairman becomes vacant—
(a) by reason of death, resignation, permanent incapacity or removal in
accordance with section 110 or 111 of this Act ;
(b) by his assumption of the office of Chairman of an Area Council in
accordance with subsection (1) ; or
(c) for any reason, the Chairman shall nominate and, with the approval
of the legislative arm of the Area Council, appoint a new Vice-Chairman.
113. A member of an area council may be recalled as a member if — Recall.
(a) there is presented to the Chairman of the Commission a petition in
that behalf signed by not less than one-half of the persons registered to
vote in that member’s constituency alleging their loss of confidence in that
member and which signatures are duly verified by the Independent National
Electoral Commission ; and
(b) the petition is thereafter approved in a referendum conducted by the
Commission within 90 days of the date of the receipt of the petition by a
simple majority of the votes of the persons registered to vote in that
member’s constituency.
PART VII—ELECTORAL OFFENCES
114. A person who— Offences in
relation to
(a) without authority, destroys, mutilates, defaces or remove or makes
registration
any alteration in any notice or document required for the purpose of
registration under this Act ;
(b) presents his or herself to be or does any act whereby he or she is by
whatever name or description howsoever, included in the register of voters for
a constituency in which he or she is not entitled to be registered or causes his or
herself to be registered in more than one registration or revision centre ;
(c) publishes any statement or report which he or she knows to be false
or does not believe to be true so as to prevent persons who are qualified to
register from registering as voters ;
(d) makes in any record, register or document which he or she is required
to prepare, publish or keep for the purpose of registration, any entry or
statement which he or she knows to be false or does not believe to be true ;
(e) impedes or obstructs a registration officer or a revision officer in the
performance of his or her duties ;
A 404 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(f ) without proper authority, wears the identification of a registration
officer or assistant registration officer or wears any other identification
purporting to be the identification of a registration officer or assistant
registration officer ;
(g) forges a registration card ; or
(h) carries out registration or revision of voters at a centre or place
not designated by the Commission, commits an offence and is liable on
conviction to a maximum fine of N1,000,000 or to imprisonment for a
term of 12 months or both.
Offences in 115.—(1) A person who—
respect of
(a) forges any nomination paper or result form,
nomination.
(b) willfully defaces or destroys any nomination paper or result form,
(c) delivers to an electoral officer any nomination paper or result form
knowing it to be forged,
(d) signs a nomination paper or result form as a candidate in more than
one constituency at the same election,
(e) forges any ballot paper or official mark on any ballot paper or any
certificate of return or result form,
(f ) willfully destroys any ballot paper or official mark on any ballot
paper or any certificate of return or result form,
(g) without authority gives a ballot paper or result form to any person,
(h) willfully places in any ballot box any unauthorised paper or result
form,
(i) willfully removes from a polling station any ballot paper or result form
whether or not the ballot paper or result form was issued to him or her in
that polling station,
(j) without authority destroys or in any other manner interferes with a
ballot box or its contents or any ballot paper or result form then in use or
likely to be used for the purpose of an election,
(k) signs a nomination paper consenting to be a candidate at an election
knowing that he or she is ineligible to be a candidate at that election,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a maximum term of
imprisonment for two years.
(2) A person who—
(a) without proper authority prints a ballot paper or what purports to be
or is capable of being used as a ballot paper or result form at an election,
(b) being authorised by the Commission to print ballot papers or result
form, prints more than the number or quantity the Commission authorised,
(c) without authority, is found in possession of a ballot paper or result
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 405
form when he or she is not in the process of voting and at a time when the
election for which the ballot paper or result form is intended, is not yet
completed,
(d) manufactures, constructs, imports into Nigeria, has in his or her
possession, supplies to any election official or uses for the purpose of an
election, or causes to be manufactured, constructed or imported into Nigeria,
supplies to any election official for use for the purpose of any election, any
ballot box including any compartment, appliance, voting device or mechanism
or by which a ballot paper or result form may or could be secretly placed or
stored in, or having been deposited during polling may be secretly diverted,
misplaced or manipulated,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a maximum fine of
N50,000,000 or imprisonment for a term not less than 10 years or both.
(3) An attempt to commit any offence under this section shall be
punishable in the same manner as the offence itself.
116. Any person who, at a political meeting — Disorderly
behavior at
(a) acts or incites another to act in a disorderly manner for the purpose
political
of preventing the transaction of the business for which the meeting was meetings.
convened, or
(b) has in his possession an offensive weapon or missiles,commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to a maximum fine of N500,000 or
imprisonment for a term of 12 months or both.
117. Any person who— Improper
use of
(a) being entitled to a voters card, gives it to some other person for use
voters cards.
at an election other than an officer appointed and acting in the course of his
or her duty under this Act,
(b) not being an officer acting in the course of his or her duty under this
Act, receives any voters card in the name of some other person or persons
for use at an election uses it fraudulently,
(c) without lawful excuse has in his possession more than one voters
card, or
(d) buys, sells, procures or deals, with a voters card otherwise than as provided
in this Act, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a maximum fine of
N1,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of 12 months or both.
118.—(1) No person shall provide for the purpose of conveying any Improper
other person to a registration office or to a polling unit any government vehicle use of
or boat, or any vehicle or boat belonging to a public corporation except in vehicles.
respect of a person who is ordinarily entitled to use such vehicle or boat and in
emergency in respect of an electoral officer.
A 406 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this section, commits
an offence and is liable on conviction to a maximum fine of N500,000 or
imprisonment for a term of six months or both.
Impersonation 119.—(1) Any person who—
and voting
(a) applies to be included in any list of voters in the name of some
when not
qualified. other person, whether such name is that of a person living or dead or of
a fictitious person ;
(b) having once to his or her knowledge been improperly included in a
list of voters under this Act as a voter entitled to vote at any election,
applies, except as authorised by this Act, to be included in any other list of
voters prepared for any constituency as a voter at an election ;
(c) applies for a ballot paper in the name of some other person, whether
such name is that of a person living or dead or of a fictitious person ;
(d) having voted once at an election applies at the same election for
another ballot paper ;
(e) votes or attempts to vote at an election knowing that he or she is not
qualified to vote at the election ; or
(f ) induces or procures any other person to vote at an election knowing
that such other person is not qualified to vote at the election,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a maximum fine of N500,000
or imprisonment for a term of 12 months or both.
(2) Any person who commits the offence of impersonation or who aids,
abets, counsels or procures the commission of that offence, is liable on
conviction to a maximum fine of N500,000 or imprisonment for a term of 12
months or both.
Dereliction 120.—(1) Any officer appointed for the purposes of this Act, who
of duty. without lawful excuse commits any act or omits to act in breach of his or her
official duty commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a maximum fine
of N500,000 or imprisonment for a term of 12 months or both.
(2) Any polling official who fails to report promptly at his or her polling
unit on an election day without lawful excuse commits an offence of dereliction
of duty and is liable on conviction to maximum fine of N500,000 or
imprisonment for a term of 12 months or both.
(3) Any polling agent, political party or party agent who conspires to
make false declaration of result of an election commits an offence and is
liable on conviction to a maximum fine of N500,000 or imprisonment for a
term of 12 months or both.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 407
(4) Any person who announces or publishes an election result knowing
same to be false or which is at variance with the signed certificate of return
commits and offence and is liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of
36 months.
(5) Any returning officer or collation officer who delivers or causes to
be delivered a false certificate of return knowing same to be false, commits
an offence and is liable on conviction to imprisonment for a maximumterm of
three years without an option of fine.
(6) Any person who delivers or causes to be delivered a false certificate
of return knowing same to be false to any news media commits an offence
and is liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of three years.
121.—(1) Any person who does any of the following— Bribery and
conspiracy
(a) directly or indirectly, by his or herself or by any other person on his or
her behalf, corruptly makes any gift, loan, offer, promise, procurement or
agreement to or for any person, in order to induce such person to procure or
to endeavour to procure the return of any person as a member of a legislative
house or to an elective office or the vote of any voter at any election ;
(b) upon or in consequence of any gift, loan, offer, promise, procurement
or agreement corruptly procures, or engages or promises or endeavours to
procure, the return of any person as a member of a legislative house or to
an elective office or the vote of any voter at any election ;
(c) advances or pays or causes to be paid any money to or for the use of
any other person, with the intent that such money or any part thereof shall
be expended in bribery at any election, or who knowingly pays or causes to
be paid any money to any person in discharge or repayment of any money
wholly or in part expended in bribery at any election ;
(d) after any election directly, or indirectly, by his or herself, or by any
other person on his or her behalf receives any money or valuable consideration
on account of any person having voted or refrained from voting, or having
induced any other person to vote or refrain from voting or having induced any
candidate to refrain from canvassing for votes for his or herself at any such
election,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a maximum fine of N500,000
or imprisonment for a term of 12 months or both.
(2) A voter commits an offence of bribery where before or during an
election directly or indirectly by his or herself or by any other person on his or
her behalf, receives, agrees or contracts for any money, gift, loan, or valuable
consideration, office, place or employment, for his or herself, or for any other
person, for voting or agreeing to vote or for refraining or agreeing to refrain
from voting at any such election.
A 408 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(3) Nothing in this section shall extend or apply to money paid or agreed
to be paid for or on account of any lawful expenses bona fide incurred at or
concerning any election.
(4) Any person who commits the offence of bribery is liable on
conviction to a maximum fine of N500,000 or imprisonment for a term of
12 months or both.
(5) Any person who conspires, aids or abets any other person to commit
any of the offences under this Part of this Act commits the same offence and
is liable to the same punishment.
(6) For the purpose of this Act, a candidate shall be deemed to have
committed an offence if it was committed with his or her knowledge and
consent.
Requirement 122.—(1) Every person in attendance at a polling unit including every
of secrecy in officer charged with the conduct of an election and his or her assistants and
voting.
every polling agent and candidate in attendance at a polling station or at the
collation centre, as the case may be, shall maintain and aid in maintaining the
secrecy of the voting.
(2) No person in attendance at a polling booth under this section shall,
except for some purpose authorised by law, communicate to any person
information as to the name or number on the register of any voter who has or
has not voted at the place of voting.
(3) No person shall—
(a) interfere with a voter casting his or her vote, or by any other means
obtain or attempt to obtain in a polling unit, information as to the candidate
for whom a voter in that place is about to vote for or has voted for ; or
(b) communicate at any time to any other person information obtained in
a polling unit as to the candidate to whom a voter is about to vote or has
voted for.
(4) Any person acting contrary to the provisions of this section commits
an offence and is liable on conviction to a maximum fine of N100,000 or
imprisonment for a term of three months or both.
Wrongful 123. Any person who—
voting and
(a) votes at an election or induces or procures any person to vote at an
false
election, knowing that he or she or such person is prohibited from voting at
statements.
the election ;
(b) before or during an election, publishes any statement of the withdrawal
of a candidate at such election knowing it to be false or reckless as to its
truth or falsity ; or
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 409
(c) before or during an election publishes any statement as to the personal
character or conduct of a candidate calculated to prejudice the chance of
election of the candidate or to promote or procure the election of another
candidate and such statement is false and was published without reasonable
grounds for belief by the person publishing it that the statement is true, commits,
an offence and is liable on conviction to a maximum fine of N100,000or
imprisonment for a term of six months or both.
124.—(1) Any person who knowingly votes or attempts to vote in a Voting by
constituency in respect of which his or her name is not on the register of unregistered
voters commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a maximum fine of person.
N100,000 or imprisonment for a term of six months or both.
(2) Any person who knowingly brings into a polling unit during an
election a voter’s card issued to another person commits an offence and is
liable on conviction to a fine of N100,000 or imprisonment for a term of
six months or both.
125. Any person who at an election acts or incites others to act in a Disorderly
disorderly manner commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a maximum conduct at
elections.
fine of N500,000 or imprisonment for a term of 12 months or both.
126.—(1) No person shall do any of the following acts or things in a Offences on
polling unit or within a distance of 300 metres of a polling unit on the date on election day.
which an election is held—
(a) canvass for votes ;
(b) solicit for the vote of any voter ;
(c) persuade any voter not to vote for any particular candidate ;
(d) persuade any voter not to vote at the election ;
(e) shout slogans concerning the election ;
(f ) be in possession of any offensive weapon or wear any dress or
have any facial or other decoration which in any event is calculated to
intimidate voters ;
(g) exhibit, wear or tender any notice, symbol, photograph or party card
referring to the election ;
(h) use any vehicle bearing the colour or symbol of a political party by
any means whatsoever ;
(i) loiter without lawful excuse after voting or after being refused to vote ;
(j) snatch or destroy any election materials ; and
(k) blare siren.
(2) No person shall within the vicinity of a polling unit or collation centre
on the day of which an election is held—
(a) convene, hold or attend any public meeting during the hours of poll as
may be prescribed by the Commission ;
A 410 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(b) unless appointed under this Act to make official announcements,
operate any megaphone, amplifier or public address apparatus ; or
(c) wear or carry any badge, poster, banner, flag or symbol relating to a
political party or to the election.
(3) A person who contravenes any of the provisions of this section
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of N100,000 or
imprisonment for a term of six months for every such offence.
(4) Any person who snatches or destroys any election material or any
election device, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to imprisonment
for a term of 24 months.
Undue 127. A person who—
influence.
(a) corruptly by his or herself or by any other person at any time after
the date of an election has been announced, directly or indirectly gives or
provides or pays money to or for any person for the purpose of corruptly
influencing that person or any other person to vote or refrain from voting at
such election, or on account of such person or any other person having
voted or refrained from voting at such election ; or
(b) being a voter, corruptly accepts or takes money or any other
inducement during any of the period stated in paragraph (a), commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of N100,000 or imprisonment
for a term of 12 months or both.
Threatening. 128. A person who—
(a) directly or indirectly, by his or herself or by another person on his or
her behalf, makes use of or threatens to make use of any force, violence or
restrain ;
(b) inflicts or threatens to inflict by his or herself or by any other person,
any minor or serious injury, damage, harm or loss on or against a person in
order to induce or compel that person to vote or refrain from voting, or on
account of such person having voted or refrained from voting ;
(c) by abduction, duress, or a fraudulent device or contrivance, impedes
or prevents the free use of the vote by a voter or thereby compels, induces,
or prevails on a voter to give or refrain from giving his vote ; or
(d) prevents any political aspirant from free use of the media, designated
vehicles, mobilisation of political support and campaign at an election,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of N1,000,000 or
imprisonment for a term of three years.
Offences 129. The offences referred to in this Act shall apply to recall of a
relating to member of a Legislative House and a member of an Area Council mutatis
recall.
mutandis.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 411
PART VIII—DETERMINATION OF ELECTION PETITIONS ARISING FROM ELECTIONS
130.—(1) No election and return at an election under this Act shall be Proceedings
questioned in any manner other than by a petition complaining of an undue to question
an election.
election or undue return (in this Act referred to as an “election petition”)
presented to the competent tribunal or court in accordance with the provisions
Cap. C23,
of the Constitution or of this Act, and in which the person elected or returned LFN, 2004.
is joined as a party.
(2) In this Part “tribunal or court” means—
(a) in the case of Presidential election, the Court of Appeal ; and
(b) in the case of any other elections under this Act, the election tribunal
established under the Constitution or by this Act.
(3) The election tribunals shall—
(a) be constituted not later than 30 days before the election ; and
(b) when constituted, open their registries for business seven days before
the election.
131.—(1) There is established for the Federal Capital Territory one or Establishment
more Election Tribunal (in this Act referred to as “the Area Council Election of Area
Council
Tribunal”) which shall, to the exclusion of any other court or tribunal, have
Election
original jurisdiction to hear and determine any question as to whether—
Tribunal.
(a) any person has been validly elected to the office of Chairman, Vice-
Chairman or Councilor ;
(b) the term of office of any person elected to the office of Chairman,
Vice-Chairman or Councilor ;
(c) the seat of a member of an Area Council has become vacant ;
(d) a question or petition brought before the Area Council Election Tribunal
has been properly or improperly brought.
(2) An Area Council Election Tribunal shall consist of a Chairman and
two other members.
(3) The Chairman shall be a Chief Magistrate and the two other members
shall be appointed from among Magistrates of the judiciary of the Federal Capital
Territory, Abuja and legal practitioners of at least 10 years post-call experience,
non-legal practitioners of unquestionable integrity or other members of the judiciary
of the Federal Capital Territory not below the rank of a Magistrate.
(4) The Chairman and other members of the Area Council Election
Tribunal shall be appointed by the Chief Judge of the High Court of the Federal
Capital Territory, Abuja.
A 412 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(5) The Area Council Election Tribunal shall—
(a) be constituted not later than 21 days before the election ; and
(b) when constituted, open their registries for business not later than
eight days after the election.
(6) An Area Council Election Tribunal shall deliver its judgment in
writing within 90 days from the date of filing of the petition.
Establishment 132.—(1) There is established for the Federal Capital Territory the Area
of Area Council Election Appeal Tribunal which shall to the exclusion of any other
Council
court or tribunal hear and determine appeals arising from the decision of the
Election
Area Council Election Petition Tribunal.
Appeal
Tribunal.
(2) The decision of the Area Council Election Appeal Tribunal in respect
of Area Council elections shall be final.
(3) An Area Council Election Appeal Tribunal shall consist of a Chairman
and two other members and the Chairman shall be a Judge of the High Court
and the two other members shall be appointed from among Judges of the High
Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Kadis of the Sharia Court of
Appeal of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Judges of the Customary Court
of Appeal or other members of the Judiciary of the Federal Capital Territory,
Abuja, not below the rank of a Chief Magistrate.
(4) The Chairman and other members of the Area Council Election
Appeal Tribunal shall be appointed by the Chief Judge of the High Court of
the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.
(5) The Area Council Election Appeal Tribunal shall—
(a) be constituted not later than 14 days before the election ; and
(b) when constituted, open their registries for business not later than 30
days after the election.
(6) The quorum of the Area Council Election Appeal Tribunal when
hearing any appeal from decisions of the Area Council Election Tribunal shall
be all three members of the Appeal Tribunal.
(7) An election petition shall be filed within 21 days after the date of the
declaration of result of the elections.
(8) The Tribunal shall deliver a judgment in writing within 180 days from
the date of the filing of the petition.
(9) An appeal from a decision of an Area Council Election Tribunal shall
be heard and disposed of within 60 days from the date of the delivery of
judgment of the Tribunal.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 413
(10) The Court in all appeals from Election Tribunal may adopt the practice
of first giving its decision and reserving the reason to a later date.
133.—(1) An election petition may be presented by one or more of the Persons
following persons— entitled to
present
(a) a candidate in an election ; or election
petitions.
(b) a political party which participated in the election.
(2) A person whose election is complained of is, in this Act, referred to
as the respondent.
(3) If the petitioner complains of the conduct of an electoral officer, a
presiding or returning officer, it shall not be necessary to join such officers or
persons notwithstanding the nature of the complaint and the Commission shall,
in this instance, be—
(a) made a respondent ; and
(b) deemed to be defending the petition for itself and on behalf of its
officers or such other persons.
134.—(1) An election may be questioned on any of the following Grounds of
grounds— petition.
(a) a person whose election is questioned was, at the time of the election,
not qualified to contest the election ;
(b) the election was invalid by reason of corrupt practices or non-
compliance with the provisions of this Act ; or
(c) the respondent was not duly elected by majority of lawful votes cast
at the election.
(2) An act or omission which may be contrary to an instruction or directive
of the Commission or of an officer appointed for the purpose of the election
but which is not contrary to the provisions of this Act shall not of itself be a
ground for questioning the election.
(3) With respect to subsection (1) (a), a person is deemed to be qualified for Cap. C23,
an elective office and his election shall not be questioned on grounds of qualification LFN, 2004.
if, with respect to the particular election in question, he meets the applicable
requirements of sections 65, 106, 131 or 177 of the Constitution and he is not, as
may be applicable, in breach of sections 66, 107, 137 or 182 of the Constitution.
135.—(1) An election shall not be liable to be invalidated by reason of Certain
non-compliance with the provisions of this Act if it appears to the Election defects not
Tribunal or Court that the election was conducted substantially in accordance to invalidate
election.
with the principles of this Act and that the non-compliance did not affect
substantially the result of the election.
A 414 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(2) An election shall not be liable to be questioned by reason of a defect
in the title or want of title of the person conducting the election or acting in the
office provided such a person has the right or authority of the Commission to
conduct the election.
(3) No election shall be questioned or cancelled by reason that there is
a mistake, conflict or inconsistency in the date contained in the result of such
election signed by a returning officer or any other officer of the Commission.
Nullification 136.—(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), if the Tribunal or the
of election Court as the case may be, determines that a candidate who was returned as
by Tribunal
elected was not validly elected on any ground, the Tribunal or Court shall
or Court.
nullify the election and order the Commission to conduct a fresh election not
later than 90 days after the—
(a) decision if an appeal is not filed against the decision ; or
(b) nullification of the election by the court having final appellate
jurisdiction in respect of the said election.
Cap. C23, (2) Where an election tribunal or court nullifies an election on the ground
LFN, 2004. that the person who obtained the highest votes at the election was not qualified
to contest the election, the election tribunal or court shall declare the person with
the second highest number of valid votes cast at the election who satisfies the
requirements of the Constitution and this Act as duly elected :
Provided that the person with the second highest number of valid votes cast at
the election remains a member of the political party on which platform he
contested the election otherwise, the candidate with the next highest number of
votes in the election and who satisfies the same conditions shall be declared the
Cap. C23, winner of the election.
LFN, 2004
(3) If the tribunal or the court determines that a candidate who was
returned as elected was not validly elected on the ground that he did not score
the majority of valid votes cast at the election, the election tribunal or the
Court, as the case may be, shall declare as elected the candidate who scored
the highest number of valid votes cast at the election and satisfied the
requirements of the Constitution and this Act.
(4) All objections filed in an election petition shall be determined at the
time of final judgment.
Effect of 137. It shall not be necessary for a party who alleges non-compliance
non- with the provisions of this Act for the conduct of elections to call oral evidence
compliance.
if originals or certified true copies manifestly disclose the non-compliance
alleged.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 415
138.—(1) Where the election is nullified by the Court and notice of Person
appeal against the decision is given within the stipulated period for appeal, the elected to
remain in
elected candidate shall, notwithstanding the contrary decision of the Court,
office
remain in office and enjoy all the benefits that accrued to the office pending
pending
the determination of the appeal and shall not be sanctioned for the benefits determination
derived while in office. of appeal
(2) If the Election Tribunal or the Court, as the case maybe, determines
that a candidate returned as elected was not validly elected, the candidate
returned as elected shall, notwithstanding the contrary decision of the Election
Tribunal or the Court, remain in office pending the expiration of the period of
21 days within which an appeal may be brought.
139.—(1) Where the Commission has been joined as a respondent in Legal
an election petition, a legal officer of the Commission or a legal practitioner representation
engaged by the Commission shall represent the Commission at the Tribunal or of
Commission.
Court.
(2) A private legal practitioner or legal officer engaged by the Commission
under subsection (1) shall be entitled to be paid such professional fees or
honorarium, as the case may be, to be determined by the Commission.
140.—(1) The rules of procedure to be adopted for election petitions and Rules of
appeals arising therefrom shall be as set out in the First Schedule to this Act. procedure
for election
(2) The President of the Court of Appeal may issue practice directions petition.
to the— First
Schedule.
(a) Court of Appeal, in respect of pre-election and post-election
appeals ; and
(b) Election Tribunal, in respect of post-election matters.
PART IX—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
141. No person holding an elective office to which this Act relates or a Persons
registered member of a political party shall be eligible for or be appointed to disqualified
carry out the duties of a returning officer, an electoral officer, presiding officer from acting
as election
or a poll clerk, and any officer appointed to carry out any of those duties shall
officers.
be ineligible for nomination as a candidate for election while he or she continues
to hold such appointment.
142.—(1) The Commission may prescribe a scale of — Election
expenses by
(a) remuneration for officers appointed under this Act for the conduct of
the
elections ; and Commission.
(b) maximum charges in respect of other expenses incurred by an
electoral officer, a presiding officer or a returning officer in connection
with an election, and may revise the scale as it thinks fit or expedient.
A 416 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(2) An electoral officer, presiding officer, or returning officer shall, in
addition to any remuneration prescribed under subsection (1) (a), be entitled
to such sums in respect of expenses not exceeding the prescribed scale, in
connection with the conduct of an election as are reasonable.
(3) The Commission may pay such honoraria as it may determine to all
other persons and officers who may be involved in one way or the other in
conducting an election under this Act, or in carrying out any task in connection
with an election or election petition arising therefrom.
(4) All fees and other remunerations approved under subsection (1)
shall be paid from the Fund established under section 3 (1) of this Act and
shall be paid in such manner as the Commission deems fit.
Secrecy of 143. No person who has voted in any election under this Act shall, in
ballot. any legal proceedings arising out of the election, be required to say for whom
he or she voted.
Prosecution 144. The Commission shall consider any recommendation made to it by
of offence a tribunal with respect to the prosecution by it of any person for an offence
disclosed in
disclosed in any election petition.
election
petition.
Trial of 145.—(1) An offence committed under this Act shall be triable in a
offences. Magistrate Court or a High Court of a State in which the offence is committed,
or the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.
(2) A prosecution under this Act shall be undertaken by legal officers of
the Commission or any legal practitioner appointed by it.
Inspection 146.—(1) An order for inspection of a polling document or any other
of document or packet in the custody of the Chief National Electoral
documents.
Commissioner or any other officer of the Commission may be made by an
Election Tribunal or a Court of competent jurisdiction if it is satisfied that the
order required is for the purpose of instituting, maintaining or defending an
election petition.
(2) A document other than a document referred to in subsection (1)
relating to an election and which is retained by the Chief National Electoral
Commissioner or any other officer of the Commission in accordance with this
section shall be open for inspection on an order made by the Election Tribunal
or the Court in exercise of its powers to compel the production of documents
in legal proceedings.
(3) Where there is a breach of an order of the Election Tribunal or the
Court directed at the Commission, particularly order to produce, inspect or
take copies of electoral documents or materials, the Commission shall first be
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 417
summoned to show cause why it cannot comply with the order to establish
disobedience before it can be deemed to have disobeyed the order.
(4) Such disobedience where established, shall attract court sanctions,
which shall include the committal by the Tribunal or Court of the Commission’s
official to whom the order is directed to summary conviction to imprisonment
for at least two years, without an option of fine.
147. Without prejudice to other provisions of this Act, the Commission Delegation
may delegate any of its powers and functions to any National Electoral of powers
Commissioner, Resident Electoral Commissioner, electoral officer, any other of the
Commission.
officer of the Commission or any other officer appointed under the provision
of this Act subject to any conditions or limitations which it may consider
necessary or expedient to impose and no such delegation shall be construed to
limit the right of the Commission to exercise such power, itself.
148. The Commission may, subject to the provisions of this Act, issue Regulations.
regulations, guidelines, or manuals for the purpose of giving effect to the
provisions of this Act and for its administration.
149. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, any defect or Validation.
error arising from any actions taken by an official of the Commission in relation
to any notice, form or document made or given or other things done by the
official in pursuance of the provisions of the Constitution or of this Act, or any Cap. C23,
rules made thereunder remain valid, unless otherwise challenged and declared LFN, 2004.
invalid by a competent court of law or tribunal.
150.—(1) In furtherance of the provision of paragraph 11 of Part II of Procedure
the Second Schedule to the Constitution, the procedure regulating elections for Local
Government
conducted by the Commission to Area Councils in the Federal Capital Territory
Election in
under this Act shall be the same and apply with equal force as the procedure
furtherance
regulating elections conducted to Local Government Areas by any State of paragraph
Commission. 11 of Part II
of the
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), a State Commission shall be Second
deemed to have and exercise the powers of the Commission in respect of the Schedule to
procedure regulating elections to Area Councils under this Act. the
Constitution.
(3) Any election to a Local Government Area that is conducted by a
State Commission in violation of subsection (1) shall be invalid.
(4) Any official of a State Commission who contravenes the provision Cap. C23,
of subsection (1) commits an offence and shall be subject to prosecution as if LFN, 2004
he were an official of the Commission who committed the same offence
under this Act.
A 418 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
Repeal of 151. The Electoral Act No. 6, 2010 is repealed.
the Electoral
Act No. 6,
2010.
Interpretation. 152. In this Act—
“Area Council” means Area Councils recognised and existing by virtue
of section 3 (6) of the Constitution and as set out in Part II of the First
Schedule thereof and any additional Area Council provided by an Act of the
National Assembly in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution ;
“appointment” includes appointment to an office, confirmation of
appointment, promotion or transfer ;
“aspirant” means a person who aspires or seeks or strives to contest an
election to a political office ;
“association” means a body of persons (corporate or otherwise) who
agree to act together for any common purpose and includes an association
formed for any ethnic, social, cultural, occupational or religious purpose ;
“Attorney-General of the Federation” means the Chief Law Officer
of the Federation ;
“Area Councils” means Area Councils in the Federal Capital Territory ;
“authority” includes government or government agency and corporate
bodies ;
“campaigning in public” referred to in section 95 means the campaign
that commences after the publication of the notice of election by the
Commission under section 28 of this Act ;
“candidate” means a person who has secured the nomination of a
political party to contest an election for any elective office ;
“Chief Electoral Commissioner” means the Chairman of the
Independent National Electoral Commission ;
“civil servant” means a person employed in the civil service of the
Federation or of a State or Local government as contained in the Constitution
of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 ;
“Clerk” means the Clerk of the National Assembly, Clerk of the State
House of Assembly, and Clerk of the Legislative House of the Local
Government or Area Council or any person acting in that capacity ;
“Commission” means the Independent National Electoral Commission
established by the Constitution ;
“Constitution” means the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
1999 ;
“conviction” means a pronouncement by a court or tribunal that a person
is guilty of an offence under this Act or under the provisions of the
Constitution whether or not any punishment is imposed on the person as a
result of the conviction and includes admission by a person in writing,
verbally, or by conduct that he is guilty, or has committed or aided and
abetted the commission of the offence or crime concerned ;
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 419
“conduct” referred to in the latter is, for instance, where a person
reimburses the sums of money or any parts of it obtained through corrupt
practice in order to avoid prosecution ;
“decision” means in relation to court or tribunal, any determination of
that court or tribunal and includes a judgment, decree, conviction, sentence,
order or recommendation ;
“direct primaries” means an election at which candidates for elective
office are chosen by direct vote of political party members instead of by
delegates at a convention or congress ;
“election” means any election held under this Act and includes a
referendum ;
“electoral officer” means a staff of the Commission who is the head of
the Commission’s office at a Local Government Area or Area Council
level ;
“electronic format” refers to the electronic version of the Register of
Voters or National Electronic Register of Election Results, as the case may
be, created, recorded, transmitted or stored in digital form or in other
intangible forms by electronic, magnetic or optical means or by any other
means that has capabilities for creation, recording, transmission or storage
similar to those means and which may be converted to or reproduced in a
paper document ;
“Federation” means the Federal Republic of Nigeria ;
“function” includes powers and duties ;
“general election” means an election held in the Federation at large
which may be at all levels, and at regular intervals to select officers to
serve after the expiration of the full terms of their predecessors ;
“Government” includes the Government of the Federation, a State, Local
Government Area or Area Council, or any person or organ exercising power
or authority on its behalf ;
“House” or “Legislative House” means the Senate, House of
Representatives, House of Assembly of a State and includes the Legislative
House of a Local Government Area or Area Council ;
“leader of an association” means every person holding an executive
position in that association, including in particular, the Chairman, Secretary
or Treasurer of the association and every member of its committee
management, however described ;
“leader of a political party” means every person holding an executive
position in that political party, including in particular, the Chairman, Secretary
or Treasurer of the political party and every member of its committee of
management, however described ;
“legal incapacity” means a person disqualified under the Constitution
or thisActor any other law, rules and regulations from registering as a voter
or from contesting elections ;
A 420 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
“Local Government” means Local Government recognised and existing
by section 3(6) of the Constitution and set out in Parts I and II of the First
Schedule and any additional Local Government provided for by an Act of the
National Assembly in accordance with section 8 (5) of the Constitution ;
“National Assembly” means the Senate and the House of
Representatives ;
“number of accredited voters” means number of intending voters
accredited to vote in an election ;
“offensive weapon or missile” includes any cannon, gun, rifle, carbine,
revolver, pistol or any other firearm, bow and arrow, spear, cutlass, knife,
dagger, axe, cudgel, or any other thing capable of being used as an offensive
weapon or missile, including teargas, acid, and any inflammable substance
capable of injuring a person ;
“office” or “public office” means any of the offices the occupation to
which is by election or appointment under this Act ;
“person with disability” means—
(a) a person who has received temporary or permanent Certificate of
Disability to a have condition which is expected to continue permanently
or for a considerable length of time which can reasonably be expected
to limit the person’s functional ability substantially, but not limited to seeing,
hearing, thinking, ambulating, climbing, descending, lifting, grasping, rising
and includes any related function or any limitation due to weakness or
significantly decreased endurance so that it cannot perform his everyday
routine, leaving and working without significantly increased hardship and
vulnerability to everyday obstacles and hazards ; and
(b) a person with long time physical, mental, intellectual, or sensory
impairment which interaction with various barriers may hinder their full
and effective participation in society ons equal basis with others ;
“person with special needs” means a person who requires assistance
for disabilities that may be medical, mental, emotional, physical or
psychological ;
“petition” means an election petition under this Act ;
“polling agent” means a person representing a political party or its
candidate at the polling unit, ward, Local Government, Federal constituency,
Senatorial district, State or Federal collation centres ;
“polling unit” means the place, enclosure, booth, shade or house at
which voting takes place under this Act ;
“political party” includes any association of persons whose activities
includes canvassing for votes in support of a candidate for election under
this Act and registered by the Commission ;
“powers” includes functions and duties ;
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 421
“President” means the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria ;
“Presiding Officer” means a person appointed by the Commission to
be in charge of the conduct of election in a polling unit or polling station, and
this shall include persons who may be under different titles but who are
charged by the Commission with the same responsibilities at a polling unit
or polling station as a Presiding officer ;
“primaries” or “primary election” mean intra-party election by voters
of a given political party to nominate candidates for elective office in
accordance with a political party’s constitution and the law ;
“Registrar” includes Chief Registrar, Deputy Chief Registrar and
Registrar of other grades of the Supreme Court, Court of Appeal, Federal
High Court and the High Court of a State ;
“Registration Officer” includes supervisory assistant registration officer
and assistant registration officer ;
“Resident Electoral Commissioner” means the Commissioner deployed
for the time being to a State ;
“return” means the declaration by a returning officer of a candidate in
an election under this Act as being the winner of that election ;
“returning officer” means a person appointed by the Commission to be
in charge of the conduct of election in a constituency, and this includes
persons who may be under different titles but who are charged by the
Commission with the same responsibilities in a constituency as a Returning
Officer ;
“school certificate” has the meaning as defined in the Constitution ;
“secret society” has the meaning as defined in the Constitution ;
“State” when used otherwise than in reference to one of the component
parts of the Federal Republic of Nigeria shall include government of a State
and all references in this Act to a State in the Federation shall, where appropriate,
be deemed to include references to the Federal Capital Territory ;
“State Commission” means State Independent Electoral Commission
created under section 197 of the Constitution ;
“vulnerable person” means a woman, child or person living under
extreme poverty, person with disability, the sick and the elderly, refugee,
internally displaced person, migrant, person in detention or ethnic and
religious minority groups ; and
“ward collation officer” means registration area Collation Officer.
153. This Act may be cited as the Electoral Act, 2022. Citation.
A 422 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
SCHEDULES
FIRST SCHEDULE Section 140 (1) and 152
Rules of Procedure for Election Petitions
Interpretation
1. In this Schedule—
“Attorney-General” means the Attorney-General of the Federation and
includes the Attorney-General of a State where the context admits ;
“Civil Procedure Rules” means the civil procedure rules of the Federal
High Court for the time being in force ;
“election” means any election under this Act to which an election petition
relates ;
“registry” means a registry set up for an Election Tribunal established
by the Constitution or this Act or the registry of the Court of Appeal ;
“Secretary” means the Secretary of an Election Tribunal established by
the Constitution or this Act and shall include the Registrar of the Court of
Appeal or any officer or Clerk acting for him ;
“Tribunal” means an Election Tribunal established under this Act or the
Court of Appeal ;
“tribunal notice board” means a notice board at the Registry or a
notice board at the place of hearing where notice of presentation of election
petition or notice of hearing an election petition or any other notice may be
given or posted.
Security for costs
2. (1) At the time of presenting an election petition, the petitioner shall
give security for all costs which may become payable by him to a witness
summoned on his behalf or to a respondent.
(2) The security shall be of such amount not less than N5,000 as the
Tribunal or Court may order and shall be given by depositing the amount with
the Tribunal or Court.
(3) Where two or three persons join in an election petition, a deposit as
may be ordered under subparagraph (2) shall be sufficient.
(4) If no security is given as required by this paragraph, there shall be no
further proceedings on the election petition.
Presentation of Election Petition
3.—(1) The presentation of an election petition under this Act shall be
made by the petitioner (or petitioners if more than one) in person, or by his
solicitor, if any, named at the foot of the election petition to the Secretary, and
the Secretary shall give a receipt.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 423
(2) The Petitioner shall, at the time of presenting the election petition,
deliver to the Secretary a copy of the election petition for each respondent
and ten other copies to be preserved by the Secretary.
(3) The Secretary shall compare the copies of the election petition
received in accordance with subparagraph (2) with the original petition and
shall certify them as true copies of the election petition on being satisfied by
the comparison that they are true copies of the election petition.
(4) The petitioner or his solicitor, as the case may be, shall, at the time of
presenting the election petition, pay the fees for the service and the publication
of the petition, and for certifying the copies and, in default of the payment, the
election petition shall be deemed not to have been received; unless the Tribunal
or Court otherwise orders.
Contents of election petition
4.—(1) An election petition under this Act shall—
(a) specify the parties interested in the election petition ;
(b) specify the right of the petitioner to present the election petition ;
(c) state the holding of the election, the scores of the candidates and the
person returned as the winner of the election ; and
(d) state clearly the facts of the election petition and the ground or
grounds on which the petition is based and the relief sought by the petitioner.
(2) The election petition shall be divided into paragraphs each of which
shall be confined to a distinct issue or major facts of the election petition, and
every paragraph shall be numbered consecutively.
(3) The election petition shall—
(a) conclude with a prayer or prayers, as for instance, that the petitioner
or one of the petitioners be declared validly elected or returned, having
polled the highest number of lawful votes cast at the election or that the
election may be declared nullified, as the case may be ; and
(b) be signed by the petitioner or all petitioners or by the solicitor, if any,
named at the foot of the election petition.
(4) At the foot of the election petition there shall also be stated an
address of the petitioner for service at which address documents intended for
the petitioner may be left and its occupier.
(5) The election petition shall be accompanied by—
(a) a list of the witnesses that the petitioner intends to call in proof of the
petition ;
(b) written statements on oath of the witnesses ; and
A 424 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(c) copies or list of every document to be relied on at the hearing of the
petition.
(6) A petition which fails to comply with subparagraph (5) shall not be
accepted for filing by the Secretary.
(7) An election petition, which does not comply with subparagraph (1)
or any provision of that subparagraph is defective and may be struck out by
the Tribunal or Court.
Further particulars
5. Evidence need not to be stated in the election petition, but the Tribunal
or Court may order such further particulars as may be necessary—
(a) to prevent surprise and unnecessary expense ;
(b) to ensure fair and proper hearing in the same way as in a civil action
in the Federal High Court ; and
(c) on such terms as to costs or otherwise as may be ordered by the
Tribunal or Court.
Address of service
6. For the purpose of service of an election petition on the respondents,
the petitioner shall furnish the Secretary with the address of the respondents’
abode or the addresses of places where personal service can be effected on
the respondents.
Action by Secretary
7.—(1) On the presentation of an election petition and payment of the
requisite fees, the Secretary shall immediately—
(a) cause notice of the presentation of the election petition, to be served
on each of the respondents ;
(b) post on the tribunal notice board a certified copy of the election
petition ; and
(c) set aside a certified copy for onward transmission to the person or
persons required by law to adjudicate and determine the election petition.
(2) In the notice of presentation of the election petition, the Secretary
shall state a time, not being less than five days but not more than seven days
after the date of service of the notice, within which each of the respondents
shall enter an appearance in respect of the election petition.
(3) In fixing the time within which the respondents are to enter
appearance, the Secretary shall have regard to—
(a) the necessity for securing a speedy hearing of the election
petition ; and
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 425
(b) the distance from the Registry or the place of hearing to the address
furnished under paragraph 4 (4).
Personal service on respondent
8.—(1) Subject to subparagraph (2) and (3), service on the respondents—
(a) of the documents mentioned in paragraph 7 (1) (a) ; and
(b) of any other documents required to be served on them before entering
appearance, shall be personal.
(2) Where the petitioner has furnished, under paragraph 6, the addresses
of the places where personal service can be effected on the respondents and
the respondents or any of them cannot be found at the place or places, the
Tribunal or Court on being satisfied, on an application supported by an affidavit
showing that all reasonable efforts have been made to effect personal service,
may order that service of any document mentioned in subparagraph (1) be
effected in any ways mentioned in the relevant provisions of the Civil Procedure
Rules for effecting substituted service in civil cases and that service shall be
deemed to be equivalent to personal service.
(3) The proceedings under the election petition shall not be vitiated
notwithstanding the fact that—
(a) the respondents or any of them may not have been served personally ; or
(b) a document of which substituted service has been effected pursuant
to an order made under subparagraph (2) did not reach the respondent, and in
either case, the proceedings may be heard and continued or determined as if
the respondents or any of them had been served personally with the document
and shall be valid and effective for all purposes.
Entry of appearance
9.—(1) Where the respondent intends to oppose the election petition, he
shall—
(a) within such time after being served or deemed to have been served
with the election petition ; or
(b) where the Secretary has stated a time under paragraph 7 (2), within
such time as is stated by the Secretary, enter an appearance by filing in the
registry a memorandum of appearance stating that he intends to oppose the
election petition and giving the name and address of the solicitor, if any,
representing him or stating that he acts for himself, as the case may be,
and, in either case, giving an address for service at which documents intended
for him may be left or served.
(2) If an address for service and its occupiers are not stated, the
memorandum of appearance shall be deemed not to have been filed, unless
the Tribunal or Court otherwise orders.
A 426 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(3) The memorandum of appearance shall be signed by the respondent
or his solicitor, if any.
(4) At the time of filing the memorandum of appearance, the respondent
or his solicitor, as the case may be, shall—
(a) leave a copy of the memorandum of appearance for each of the
other parties to the election petition and three other copies of the
memorandum to be preserved by the Secretary ; and
(b) pay the fees for service as may be prescribed or directed by the
Secretary and in default of the copies being left and the fees being paid at
the time of filing the memorandum of appearance, the memorandum of
appearance shall be deemed not to have been filed, unless the Tribunal or
Court otherwise orders.
(5) A respondent who has a preliminary objection against the hearing of
the election petition on grounds of law may file a conditional memorandum of
appearance.
Non-filing of Memorandum of Appearance
10.—(1) If the respondent does not file a memorandum of appearance
as required under paragraph 9, a document intended for service on him may
be posted on the tribunal notice board and that shall be sufficient notice of
service of the document on the respondent.
(2) The non-filing of a memorandum of appearance shall, not bar the
respondent from defending the election petition if the respondent files his reply
to the election petition in the registry within a reasonable time, but, in any
case, not later than 21 days from the receipt of the election petition.
Notice of Appearance
11. The Secretary shall cause copies of the memorandum of appearance
to be served on, or its notice to be given to the other parties to the election
petition.
Filing of reply
12.—(1) The respondent shall, within 21 days of service of the petition
on him file in the registry his reply, specifying in it which of the facts alleged in
the election petition he admits and which he denies, and setting out the facts
on which he relies in opposition to the election petition.
(2) Where the respondent in an election petition, complaining of an
undue return and claiming the seat or office for a petitioner intend to prove
that the claim is incorrect or false, the respondent in his reply shall set out the
facts and figures clearly and distinctly disproving the claim of the petitioner.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 427
(3) The reply may be signed by the respondent or the solicitor representing
him, if any and shall state the name and address of the solicitor at which
subsequent processes shall be served; and shall be accompanied by copies of
documentary evidence, list of witnesses and the written statements on oath.
(4) At the time of filing the reply, the respondent or his solicitor, if any
shall leave with the Secretary copies of the reply for services on the other
parties to the election petition with 10 extra copies of the reply to be preserved
by the Secretary, and pay the fees for service as may be prescribed or directed
by the Secretary, and in default of leaving the required copies of the reply or
paying the fees for service, the reply shall be deemed not to have been filed,
unless the Tribunal or Court otherwise orders.
(5) A respondent who has an objection to the hearing of the petition
shall file his reply and state the objection in it, and the objection shall be heard
along with the substantive petition.
Service of Reply
13. The Secretary shall cause a copy of the reply to be served on each
of the other parties to the election petition.
Amendment of Election petition and reply
14.—(1) Subject to subparagraph (2), the provisions of the Civil Procedure
Rules relating to amendment of pleadings shall apply in relation to an election
petition or a reply to the election petition as if for the words “any proceedings”
in those provisions, there were substituted the words,”the election petition
or reply”.
(2) After the expiration of the time limited by—
(a) Section 132 (7) of this Act for presenting the election petition, no
amendment shall be made—
(i) introducing any of the requirements of paragraph 4 (1) not
contained in the original election petition filed, or
(ii) effecting a substantial alteration of the ground for, or the prayer
in, the election petition, or
(iii) except anything which may be done under subparagraph (2) (a)
(ii), effecting a substantial alteration of or addition to, the statement of
facts relied on to support the ground for, or sustain the prayer in the
election petition ; and
(b) paragraph 12 for filing the reply, no amendment shall be made—
(i) alleging that the claim of the seat or office by the petitioner is
incorrect or false, or
A 428 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(ii) except anything which may be done under the provisions of
subparagraph (2) (a) (ii), effecting any substantial alteration in or addition
to the admissions or the denials contained in the original reply filed, or to
the facts set out in the reply.
Particulars of votes rejected
15. When a petitioner claims the seat alleging that he had the highest
number of valid votes cast at the election, the party defending the election
or return at the election shall set out clearly in his reply particulars of the
votes, if any, which he objects to and the reasons for his objection against
such votes, showing how he intends to prove at the hearing that the petitioner
is not entitled to succeed.
Petitioner’s Reply
16.—(1) If a person in his reply to the election petition raises new
issues of facts in defence of his case which the petition has not dealt with,
the petitioner shall be entitled to file in the registry, within five days from
the receipt of the respondent’s reply, a petitioner’s reply in answer to the
new issues of fact, so that—
(a) the petitioner shall not at this stage be entitled to bring in new facts,
grounds or prayers tending to amend or add to the contents of the petition
filed by him ; and
(b) the petitioner’s reply does not run counter to the provisions of
paragraph 14 (1).
(2) The time limited by subparagraph (1) shall not be extended.
(3) The petitioner in proving his case shall have the time limit as prescribed
under paragraph 41 (10).
Further particulars or directive
17.—(1) If a party in an election petition wishes to have further particulars
or other directions of the Tribunal or Court, he may, at any time after entry of
appearance, but not later than 10 days after the filing of the reply, apply to the
Tribunal or Court specifying in his notice of motion the direction for which he
prays and the motion shall, unless the Tribunal or Court otherwise orders, be
set down for hearing on the first available day.
(2) If a party does not apply as provided in subparagraph (1), he shall be
taken to require no further particulars or other directions and the party shall be
barred from so applying after the period laid down in subparagraph (1) has lapsed.
(3) Supply of further particulars under this paragraph shall not entitle
the party to go beyond the ambit of supplying such further particulars as have
been demanded by the other party, and embark on undue amendment of, or
additions to, his petition or reply, contrary to paragraph 14.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 429
Pre-hearing session and scheduling
18.—(1) Within seven days after the filing and service of the petitioner’s
reply on the respondent or seven days after the filing and service of the
respondent’s reply, whichever is the case, the petitioner shall apply for the
issuance of pre-hearing notice as in Form TF 007.
(2) Upon application by a petitioner under sub-paragraph (1), the Tribunal
or Court shall issue to the parties or their legal practitioners (if any) a pre-
hearing conference notice as in Form TF 007 accompanied by a pre-hearing
information sheet as in Form TF 008 for—
(a) the disposal of all matters which can be dealt with on interlocutory
application ;
(b) giving such directions as to the future course of the petition as appear
best adapted to secure its just, expeditious and economical disposal in view
of the urgency of election petitions ;
(c) giving directions on order of witnesses to be called and such
documents to be tendered by each party to prove their cases having in view
the need for the expeditious disposal of the petition ; and
(d) fixing clear dates for hearing of the petition.
(3) The respondent may bring the application in accordance with
subparagraph (1) where the petitioner fails to do so, or by motion which shall
be served on the petitioner and returnable in three clear days, apply for an
order to dismiss the petition.
(4) Where the petitioner and the respondent fail to bring an application
under this paragraph, the Tribunal or Court shall dismiss the petition as
abandoned petition and no application for extension of time to take that step
shall be filed or entertained.
(5) Dismissal of a petition under subparagraphs (3) and (4) is final, and
the Tribunal or Court shall be functus officio.
(6) At the pre-hearing session, the Tribunal or Court shall enter a
scheduling Order for—
(a) joining other parties to the petition ;
(b) amending petition or reply or any other processes ;
(c) filing and adoption of written addresses on all interlocutory applications ;
(d) additional pre-hearing session ;
(e) order of witnesses and tendering of documents that will be necessary
for the expeditious disposal of the petition ; and
(f ) any other matters that will promote the quick disposal of the petition
in the circumstances.
A 430 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(7) At the pre-hearing session, the Tribunal or Court shall consider and
take appropriate action in respect of the following as may be necessary or
desirable—
(a) amendments and further and better particulars ;
(b) the admissions of facts, documents and other evidence by consent
of the parties ;
(c) formulation and settlement of issues for trial ;
(d) hearing and determination of objections on point of law ;
(e) control and scheduling of discovery inspection and production of
documents ;
(f ) narrowing the field of dispute between certain types of witnesses
especially the Commission’s staff and witnesses that officiated at the election,
by their participation at pre-hearing session or in any other manner ;
(g) giving orders or directions for hearing of cross-petitions or any
particular issue in the petition or for consolidation with other petitions ;
(h) determining the form and substance of the pre-hearing order ; and
(i) such other matters as may facilitate the just and speedy disposal of
the petition bearing in mind the urgency of election petitions.
(8) At the pre-hearing session, the Tribunal or Court shall ensure that
hearing is not delayed by the number of witnesses and objections to documents
to be tendered and shall pursuant to subparagraphs 7 (b), and (e)—
(a) allow parties to admit or exclude documents by consent ; and
(b) direct parties to streamline the number of witnesses to those whose
testimonies are relevant and indispensable.
(9) The pre-hearing session or series of the pre-hearing sessions with
respect to any petition shall be completed within 14 days of its commencement,
and the parties and their legal practitioners shall co-operate with the Tribunal
or Court in working within this time table and as far as practicable, pre-hearing
sessions shall be held from day to day or adjourned only for purposes of
compliance with prehearing sessions, unless extended by the Chairman or the
Presiding Justice.
(10) After a pre-hearing session or series of pre-hearing sessions the
Tribunal or Court shall issue a report and this report shall guide the subsequent
course of the proceedings, unless modified by the Tribunal or Court.
(11) If a party or his Legal Practitioner fails to attend the pre-hearing
sessions or obey a scheduling or pre-hearing order or is substantially unprepared
to participate in the session or fails to participate in good faith, the Tribunal or
Court shall in the case of —
(a) the petitioner, dismiss the petition ; and
(b) a respondent enter judgment against him.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 431
(12) Any judgment given under subparagraph (11) may be set aside
upon an application made within seven days of the judgment (which shall not
be extended) with an order as to costs of a sum not less than N20,000.00.
(13) The application shall be accompanied by an undertaking to participate
effectively in the pre-hearing session jointly signed by the applicant and the
Legal Practitioner representing him.
Hearing of petition to be in open tribunal or court
19. Every election petition shall be heard and determined in an open
tribunal or court.
Time and place of hearing petition
20.—(1) Subject to the provisions of subparagraph (2), the time and
place of the hearing of an election petition shall be fixed by the Tribunal or
Court and notice of the time and place of the hearing, which may be as in
Form TF. 005 set out in Second Schedule to this Act, shall be given by the
Secretary at least five days before the day fixed for the hearing by—
(a) posting the notice on the tribunal notice board ; and
(b) sending a copy of the notice by registered post or through a messenger
to the—
(i) petitioner’s address for service,
(ii) respondent’s addresses for service, if any, or
(iii) Resident Electoral Commissioner or the Commission as the case
may be.
(2) In fixing the place of hearing, the Tribunal or Court shall have due
regard to the proximity to and accessibility from the place where the election
was held.
Notice of hearing
21. A tribunal or court, as the case may be, shall publish the notice of
hearing by causing a copy of the notice to be displayed in the place which was
appointed for the delivery of nomination papers prior to the election or in some
conspicuous place or places within the constituency, but failure to do so or any
miscarriage of the copy of notice of hearing shall not affect the proceedings if
it does not occasion injustice against any of the parties to the election petition.
Posting of notice on tribunal notice board
deemed to be good notice
22. The posting of the notice of hearing on the tribunal notice board
shall be deemed and taken to be good notice, and the notice shall not be
vitiated by any miscarriage of the copy or copies of the notice sent pursuant
to paragraph 16.
A 432 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
Postponement of hearing
23.—(1) The Tribunal or Court may, by order made on the application
of a party to the election petition or at the instance of the Tribunal or Court,
postpone the beginning of the hearing to such day as the Tribunal or Court
may consider appropriate having regard at all times to the need for speedy
conclusion of the hearing of the election petition.
(2) A copy of the order shall be sent by the Secretary by registered post
or messenger to the electoral officer or the Resident Electoral Commissioner
or the Commission who shall publish the order in the manner provided in
paragraph 20 for publishing the notice of hearing, but failure on the part of the
electoral officer or Resident Electoral Commissioner or the Commission to
publish the copy of the order of postponement shall not affect the proceedings
in any manner whatsoever.
(3) The Secretary shall post or cause to be posted on the tribunal notice
board a copy of the order.
(4) Where the Tribunal or Court gives an order of postponement at its
own instance a copy of the order shall be sent by the Secretary by registered
post or messenger to the address for service given by the petitioner and to the
address for service, if any, given by the respondents or any of them.
(5) The provisions of paragraph 21 shall apply to an order or a notice of
postponement as they do to the notice of hearing.
Non arrival of Chairman of tribunal or Presiding
Justice of the court
24. If the Chairman of the tribunal or presiding justice of the court has
not arrived at the appointed time for the hearing or at the time to which the
hearing has been postponed, the hearing shall, by reason of that fact, stand
adjourned to the following day and so from day to day.
Hearing continues from day to day
25.—(1) No formal adjournment of the Tribunal or Court for the hearing
an election petition shall be necessary, but the hearing shall be deemed
adjourned and may be continued until the hearing is concluded unless the
Tribunal or Court otherwise directs as the circumstances may dictate.
(2) If the Chairman of the Tribunal or the presiding justice of the court
who begins the hearing of an election petition is disabled by illness or otherwise,
the hearing may be recommended and concluded by another Chairman of the
Tribunal or presiding justice of the Court appointed by the appropriate authority.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 433
Adjournment of hearing
26.—(1) After the hearing of an election petition has begun, if the inquiry
cannot be continued on the ensuing day or, if that day is a Sunday or a Public
holiday, on the day following the same, the hearing shall not be adjourned sine
die but to a definite day to be announced before the rising of the Tribunal or
Court and notice of the day to which the hearing is adjourned shall immediately
be posted by the Secretary on the notice board.
(2) The hearing may be continued on a Saturday or on a public holiday
if circumstances dictate.
Power of Chairman of the Tribunal or the presiding justice
of the court to dispose on interlocutory matters
27.—(1) All interlocutory questions and matters may be heard and
disposed of by the Chairman of the Tribunal or the presiding justice of the
court who shall have control over the proceedings as a Judge in the Federal
High Court.
(2) After the hearing of the election petition is concluded, if the Tribunal
or Court before which it was heard has prepared its judgment but the Chairman
or the presiding justice is unable to deliver it due to illness or any other cause,
the judgment may be delivered by one of the members, and the judgment as
delivered shall be the judgment of the Tribunal or Court and the member shall
certify the decision of the Tribunal or Court to the Resident Electoral
Commissioner, or to the Commission.
Effect of determination of election petition
28.—(1) At the conclusion of the hearing, the Tribunal shall determine
whether a person whose election or return is complained of or any other
person, and what person, was validly returned or elected, or whether the
election was void, and shall certify the determination to the Resident Electoral
Commissioner or the Commission.
(2) If the Tribunal or Court has determined that the election is invalid,
then, subject to section 134 of this Act, where there is an appeal and the
appeal fails, a new election shall be held by the Commission.
(3) Where a new election is to be held under the provisions of this
paragraph, the Commission shall appoint a date for the election which shall
not be later than three months from the date of the determination.
Withdrawal or abatement of petition
29.—(1) An election petition shall not be withdrawn without leave of the
tribunal or court.
A 434 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(2) Where the petitioners are more than one no application for leave to
withdraw the election petition shall be made except with the consent of all the
petitioners.
(3) The application for leave to withdraw an election shall be made by
motion after notice of the application has been given to the respondents.
(4) The notice of motion shall state the grounds on which the motion to
withdraw is based, supported with affidavit verifying the facts and reasons
for withdrawal, signed by the petitioner or petitioners in the presence of the
Secretary.
(5) At the time of filing the notice of motion the petitioner or petitioners
shall leave copies for service on the respondent.
(6) The petitioner or petitioners shall also file the affidavits required
under paragraph 29 together with copies for each respondent and pay the
fees prescribed or directed by the Secretary for services.
Affidavits against illegal term of withdrawal
30.—(1) Before the leave for withdrawal of an election petition is granted,
each of the parties to the petition shall produce an affidavit, stating that—
(a) to the best of the deponent’s knowledge and belief no agreement or
term of any kind whatsoever has been made ; and
(b) no undertaking has been entered into, in relation to the withdrawal of
the petition, but if any lawful agreement has been made with respect to the
withdrawal of the petition, the affidavit shall set forth that agreement and
shall make the foregoing statement subject to what appears from the affidavit.
Time for hearing motion for leave to withdraw petition
31.—(1) The time for hearing the motion for leave to withdraw the
election petition shall be fixed by the Tribunal or Court.
(2) The Secretary may give notice of the day fixed for the hearing of
the motion to the respondents and post or cause to be posted on the Tribunal
notice board a copy of the notice.
Payment of costs to respondents
32. If the election petition is withdrawn, the petitioner shall be liable to
pay appropriate costs to the respondents or any of them unless the Tribunal or
Court otherwise orders.
Abatement of proceedings in election petition
33.—(1) If a sole petitioner or the survivor of several petitioners
dies, then, subject to subparagraphs (2) and (3), there shall be no further
proceedings on the election petition and the Tribunal or Court may strike it
out of its cause list.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 435
(2) The death of a petitioner shall not affect his liability for the payment
of costs previously incurred in the course of proceedings in respect of the
election petition prior to its abatement.
(3) Where notice, with copies for each party to the election petition
supported by the affidavit of two witnesses testifying to the death of a sole
petitioner or of the survivor of several petitioners, is given to the Secretary, he
shall submit the notice to the Tribunal or Court and if the Tribunal or Court so
directs, the Secretary shall—
(a) serve notice on the other parties to the petition ;
(b) post or cause to be posted a notice on the Tribunal notice board ; and
(c) cause notice to be published in conspicuous places in the constituency,
in such form as the Tribunal or Court may direct.
Notice of no opposition to petition
34.—(1) If before the hearing of an election petition, a respondent,
other than the electoral officer, the returning officer or Presiding officer,
gives to the Tribunal or Court notice in writing signed by him or his Solicitor
before the Secretary that he does not intend to oppose the election petition,
the Secretary shall—
(a) serve notice on the other parties to the election petition ; and
(b) post or cause to be posted a notice on the Tribunal notice board.
(2) The respondent shall file the notice with a copy for each other party
to the election petition not less than six days before the day appointed for
hearing of the election petition.
(3) A respondent who has given notice of his intention not to oppose the
election petition shall not appear or act as a party against the election petition
in any proceeding on it ; but the giving of the notice shall not of itself cause
him to cease to be a respondent.
Countermand of notice of hearing
35.—(1) Where a notice of—
(a) the petitioner’s intention to apply for leave to withdraw an election
petition ; or
(b) the death of the sole petitioner or the survivor of several petitioners ; or
(c) the respondent’s intention not to oppose an election petition, is received
after notice of hearing of the election petition has been given, and before
the hearing has begun, the Secretary shall forthwith countermand the notice
of hearing.
(2) The countermand shall be given in the same manner, and, as near as
may be, as the notice of hearing.
A 436 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
Discretion of Tribunals or Court if no reply
36. Where the respondent has not entered an appearance, or has not
filed his reply within the prescribed time or within such time as the Tribunal or
Court may have allowed, or has given notice that he does not intend to oppose
the petition, then if—
(a) there remains no more than one other candidate in the election who
was not returned ;
(b) the election petition contains no prayer for a determination that the
election was void ;
(c) there are no facts or grounds stated in the election petition or in the
reply, if any, or stated in any further particulars filed in the proceedings or
otherwise appearing on proof of which it ought to be determined that election
was void ; or
(d) the election petition is one complaining of undue return and claiming
the seat or office for the candidate who was not returned and the respondent
has not raised any formal or written objections to any of the votes relied on
by the petitioner, the Tribunal or Court may, if it deems fit, determine the
proceedings on the election petition without hearing evidence or further
evidence, and in any case, the proceedings shall be continued and determined
on such evidence or otherwise as the Tribunal or Court may deem necessary
for the full and proper determination of the election petition.
Fees
37.—(1) The fee payable on the presentation of an election petition shall
not be less than Nl,000.00.
(2) A hearing fee shall be payable for the hearing at the rate of N40.00
per day of the hearing but not exceeding N2,000.00 in all, but the Tribunal or
Court may direct a different fee to be charged for any day of the hearing.
(3) For the purpose of subparagraph (2), the petitioners shall make a
deposit of not less than N2000.00 at the time of presenting his petition.
(4) Subject to the provisions of this paragraph, the fees payable in
connection with an election petition shall be at the rate prescribed for civil
proceedings in the Federal High Court.
(5) No fees shall be payable by the Attorney-General of the Federation
(acting in person or through any other legal officer) or by a respondent who
was the Commission or any of its officers appointed pursuant to the provisions
of this Act.
(6) No fees shall be payable for the summoning of witnesses by the
Tribunal or Court at its own instance.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 437
Allocation of costs
38.—(1) All costs, charges and expenses of and incidental to the
presentation of an election petition and to the proceedings consequent thereon,
with the exception of such as are otherwise provided for, shall be defrayed by
the parties to the election petition in such manner and in such proportions as
the Tribunal or Court may determine, regard being had to the—
(a) disallowance of any costs, charges or expenses, which may in the
opinion of the Tribunal or Court have been caused by vexatious conduct,
unfounded allegation or unfounded objection on the part of the petitioner or
of the respondent, as the case may be ; and
(b) discouragement of any needless expenses by throwing the burden of
defraying the expenses on the party by whom it has been caused; whether
that party is or is not on the whole successful.
(2) Where the Tribunal or Court declares an election to be void, it may,
if satisfied that the invalidity was due either wholly or in part to the culpable
default of an officer responsible for the conduct of the election in the
performance of his duties, order that the whole or part of the cost awarded to
the successful petitioner be paid by that officer.
Return of Security
39. Money deposited as security shall, when no longer needed as security
for costs, charges or expenses, be returned to the person in whose name it
was deposited or to the person entitled to receive it by order of the Tribunal or
Court which may be made on motion after notice and proof that all just claims
have been satisfied or otherwise sufficiently provided for as the Tribunal or
Court may require.
Payment of costs out of security
40.—(1) The Tribunal or Court may, on application made by a person to
whom any costs, charges or expenses is payable, order it to be paid out of a
deposit made to secure it, after notice to the party by or on whose behalf the
deposit was made, requiring him to file a statement within a specified time
whether he opposes the application and the ground of his opposition.
(2) Where a dispute arises on an application under subparagraph (1), the
Tribunal or Court shall afford every person affected by the dispute an opportunity
of being heard and shall make such order there on as it may deem fit.
(3) A person shall be deemed to have been afforded the opportunity of
being heard if notice of the appointed time for the inquiry into the dispute was
given to him, though the person may not have been present at the making of
the inquiry.
A 438 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(4) A notice to be given to a person under this paragraph may be given
by the Secretary handing him the notice or sending it to him by registered
letter in the case of —
(a) a party, at the address for service ;
(b) an application for payment, at the address given in his application, so
however, that the provisions of this subparagraph shall not preclude the
giving of notice in any other manner in which notice may be given or which
may be authorised by the Tribunal or Court.
(5) Execution may be levied under an order for payment made by the
Tribunal or Court under this paragraph in the same manner and to the same
extent as execution may be levied under judgment for the payment of money.
Evidence at Hearing
41.—(1) Subject to any statutory provision or any provision of these
paragraphs relating to evidence, any fact required to be proved at the hearing
of a petition shall be proved by written deposition and oral examination of
witnesses in open court.
(2) Documents which parties consented to at the pre-hearing session or
other exhibits shall be tendered from the Bar or by the party where he is not
represented by a legal practitioner.
(3) There shall be no oral examination of a witness during his evidence-
in-chief except to lead the witness to adopt his written deposition and tender
in evidence all disputed documents or other exhibits referred to in the deposition.
(4) Real evidence shall be tendered at the hearing.
(5) The Tribunal or Court may, at or before the hearing of a petition
order or direct that evidence of any particular fact be given at the hearing in
such manner as may be specified by the order or direction.
(6) The power conferred by subparagraph (5) of this paragraph extends
in particular to ordering or directing that evidence of any particular fact be
given at the trial—
(a) by statement on oath of information or belief ;
(b) by the production of documents or entries in books ; or
(c) in the case of a fact which is of common knowledge either generally
or in a particular district by the production of a specified newspaper which
contains a statement of that fact.
(7) The Tribunal or Court may, at or before the hearing of a petition
order or direct that the number of witnesses who may be called at the hearing
be limited as specified by the order or direction.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 439
(8) Save with leave of the Tribunal or Court after an applicant has
shown exceptional circumstances, no document, plan, photograph or model
shall be received in evidence at the hearing of a petition unless it has been
listed or filed along with the petition in the case of the petitioner or filed along
with the reply in the case of the respondent.
(9) Such leave may be granted with costs save where in the circumstance
the Tribunal or Court considers otherwise.
(10) The petitioner, in proving his case shall have, in the case of —
(a) Councillor, Chairman and State House of Assembly, two weeks ;
(b) House of Representatives, three weeks ;
(c) Senate, five weeks ;
(d) Governor, six weeks ; and
(e) President, seven weeks,to do so and each respondent shall have not
more than 10 days to present his defence.
Calling of witnesses
42.—(1) On the hearing of an election petition, the Tribunal or Court
may summon a person as a witness who appears to the Tribunal or Court to
have been concerned in the election.
(2) The Tribunal or Court may examine a witness so summoned or any
other person in the Tribunal or Court although the witness or person is not
called and examined by a party to the election petition, and thereafter he may
be cross-examined by or on behalf of the petitioner and the respondent.
(3) The expenses of a witness called by the Tribunal or Court at its own
instance shall, unless the Tribunal or Court otherwise orders, be deemed to be
costs of the election petition and may, if the Tribunal or Court so directs, be
paid in the first instance by the Secretary in the same way as State witness’
expenses and recovered in such manner as the Tribunal or Court may direct.
(4) Where the Tribunal or Court summons a person as a witness under
this paragraph, the provisions of the Civil Procedure Rules relating to the
expenses of persons ordered to attend a hearing shall apply as if they were
part of this paragraph.
(5) The Tribunal or Court shall in—
(a) making and carrying into effect an order for the production and
inspection of documents used in the election ; and
(b) the examination of any witness who produces or will produce a
document, ensure that the way in which the vote of a particular person has
been given shall not be disclosed.
A 440 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
Privileges of a witness
43.—(1) A person called as a witness in a proceeding in the Tribunal or
Court shall not be excused from answering a question relating to an offence
or connected with an election on the grounds that the answer thereto may
incriminate or tend to incriminate him, or on the ground of privilege.
(2) A witness who answers truly all questions which he is required by
the Tribunal or Court to answer shall be entitled to receive a certificate of
indemnity under the hand of the Chairman or the Tribunal or presiding justice
of the Court stating that the witness has so answered.
(3) An answer by a person to a question before the Tribunal or Court
shall not, except in the case of a criminal proceeding for perjury in respect of
the answer, be admissible in any proceeding, civil or criminal, in evidence
against him.
(4) When a person has received a certificate of indemnity in relation to
an election and legal proceedings are at any time brought against him for an
offence against the provisions of this Act, committed by him prior to the date
of the certificate at or in relation to that election, the Tribunal or Court having
cognizance of the case shall, on proof of the certificate, stay the proceeding,
and may, at its discretion award to that person such costs as he may have
been put to in the proceeding.
Evidence of respondent
44. At the hearing of an election petition complaining of an undue return
and claiming the seat or office for a petitioner, the respondent may, subject to
the provisions of paragraph 12 (2), give evidence to prove that the election of
the petitioner was undue in the same manner as if he were the person presenting
the election petition complaining of the election.
Enlargement and abridgement of time
45.—(1) The Tribunal or Court shall have power, subject to the provisions
of section 134 of this Act and paragraph 11, to enlarge time for doing any act
or taking any proceedings on such terms (if any) as the justice of the case
may require except otherwise provided by any other provision of this Schedule.
(2) An enlargement of time may be ordered although the application for
the enlargement is not made until after the expiration of the time appointed or
allowed.
(3) When the time for delivering a pleading or document or filing any
affidavit, answer or document, or doing anything or act is or has been fixed or
limited by any of the sections, paragraphs or rules under or in pursuance of
this Act or by a direction or an order of the Tribunal or Court, the costs of an
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 441
application to extend the time, where allowed or of an order made there on
shall be borne by the party making the application unless the Tribunal or Court
otherwise orders.
(4) Every application for enlargement or abridgement of time shall be
supported by affidavit.
(5) An application for abridgement of time may be ex parte, but the
Tribunal or Court may require notice of the application to be given to the other
parties to the election petition.
(6) An application for enlargement of time shall be made by motion
after notice to the other party to the election petition but the Tribunal or Court
may, for good cause shown by affidavit or otherwise, dispense with the notice.
(7) A copy of an order made for enlargement or abridgement of time
shall be filed or delivered together with any document filed or delivered by
virtue of the order.
Hearing in a Petition
46.—(1) When a petition comes up for hearing and neither party appears,
the Tribunal or Court shall, unless there are good reasons to the contrary,
strike out the petition and no application shall be brought or entertained to re-
list it.
(2) When a petition comes up for hearing, if the petitioner appears and
the respondent does not appear the petitioner may prove his petition so far as
the burden of proof lies upon him and the Tribunal or Court shall enter a final
judgment in the petition.
(3) When a petition comes up for hearing, if the respondent appears and
the petitioner does not appear, the respondent shall be entitled to final judgment
dismissing the petition.
(4) Documentary evidence shall be put in and may be read or taken as
read by consent, such documentary evidence shall be deemed demonstrated
in open court and the parties in the petition shall be entitled to address and
urge argument on the content of the document, and the Tribunal or Court shall
scrutinize or investigate the content of the documents as part of the process
of ascribing probative value to the documents or otherwise.
(5) A party shall close his case when he has concluded his evidence and
either the petitioner or respondent may make oral application to have the case
closed.
(6) Notwithstanding the provision of subparagraph (5), the Tribunal or
Court may suo-motu where it considers that either party fails to conclude its
case within a reasonable time, close that party’s case.
A 442 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
(7) The Secretary shall take charge of every document or object put in
as exhibit during the hearing of a petition and shall mark or label every exhibit
with a letter or letters indicating the party by whom the exhibit is put in (or
where more convenient the witness by whom the exhibit is proved) and with
a number so that all the exhibits put in by a party (or proved by a witness) are
numbered in one consecutive series.
(8) The Secretary shall cause a list of all the exhibits in the petition to be
made which when completed shall form part of the record of the proceedings.
(9) For the purpose of subparagraph (8), a bundle of documents may be
treated and counted as one exhibit.
(10) When the party beginning has concluded his evidence, if the other
party does not intend to call evidence, the party beginning shall within 10 days
after close of evidence file a written address. Upon being served with the written
address, the other party shall within seven days file his own written address.
(11) Where the other party calls evidence, he shall within 10 days after
the close of its evidence file a written address.
(12) Upon being served with other party’s written address the party
beginning shall within seven days file his written address.
(13) The party who files the first address shall have a right of reply on
points of law only and the reply shall be filed within five days after service of
the other party’s address.
Motions and Applications
47.—(1) No motion shall be moved and all motions shall come up at the
pre-hearing session except in extreme circumstances with leave of Tribunal
or Court.
(2) Where by these Rules any application is authorised to be made to
the Tribunal or Court, such application shall be made by motion which may be
supported by affidavit and shall state under what rule or law the application is
brought and shall be served on the respondent.
(3) Every such application shall be accompanied by a written address in
support of the reliefs sought.
(4) Where the respondent to the motion intends to oppose the application,
he shall within seven days of the service on him of such application file his
written address and may accompany it with a counter affidavit.
(5) The applicant may, on being served with the written address of the
respondent file and serve an address in reply on points of law within three
days of being served and where a counter-affidavit is served on the applicant
he may file further affidavit with his reply.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 443
Service of Notice
48.—(1) Where a summons, notice or document, other than a notice or
document mentioned in paragraph 7 (1), is required to be served on a person
for a purpose connected with an election petition, it may be served by delivering
it to the person or by leaving it at his last known place of abode in the
constituency with any person there found who is a resident of the abode and
appears to be 18 years of age or more.
(2) After a party has given an address for service it shall be sufficient
if, in lieu of serving him personally with a document intended for him, the
document is served on the person—
(a) appearing on the paper last filed on his behalf as his Solicitor
wherever the person may be found or, if the person is not found at his
office, on the clerk there apparently in charge ; or
(b) named as occupier in his address for service wherever the person
may be found or, if the person is not found at the address, on—
(i) the person there found apparently in charge, if such address is a
place or business, or
(ii) a person, other than a domestic servant, there found who is a
resident of the address and appears to be 18 years of age or more.
(3) A party may change his address for service by giving notice of his
new address for service and its occupier to the Secretary and to each party
to the election petition, but, until a notice, is received by the Secretary, his old
address for service shall continue to be his address for service.
(4) Where service by one of the modes specified in this paragraph has
proved impracticable, the Tribunal or Court may, on being satisfied, on an
application supported by an affidavit showing what has been done, that all
reasonable efforts have been made to effect service—
(a) order that service be effected in any of the ways mentioned in the
provisions of the Civil Procedure Rules relating to substituted service which
service shall be sufficient ; or
(b) dispense with service or notice as the Tribunal or Court deems fit.
Two or more candidates as respondents
49. Two or more candidates may be made respondents to the same
petition and their case may, for the sake of convenience be heard at the
same time but for all purposes (including the taking of security) the election
petition shall be deemed to be a separate petition against each of the
respondents.
A 444 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
Consolidated petitions
50. Where two or more petitions are presented in relation to the same
election or return, all the petitions shall be consolidated, considered and be
dealt with as one petition unless the Tribunal or Court shall otherwise direct in
order to do justice or an objection against one or more of the petitions has
been upheld by the Tribunal or Court.
Electoral officer as respondents
51.—(1) Where an election petition complains of the conduct of an
electoral officer, a Presiding officer, returning officer or any other official of
the Commission he shall for all purposes be deemed to be a respondent and
joined in the election petition as a necessary party, but an electoral officer, a
Presiding officer, returning officer or any other official of the Commission
shall not be at liberty to decline from opposing the petition except with the
written consent of the Attorney-General of the Federation.
(2) If consent is withheld by the Attorney-General under subparagraph
(1) of this paragraph the Government of the Federation shall indemnify the
electoral officer, Presiding officer, returning officer or such other official of
the Commission against any costs which may be awarded against him by the
Tribunal or Court in respect of the election petition.
(3) Where the Commission, an electoral officer, a Presiding officer, returning
officer or any other official of the Commission has been joined as a respondent
in an election petition, a Legal Officer of the Commission or a Legal Practitioner
engaged by the Commission or the Attorney-General of the State concerned
(acting in person or through any of his Legal Officers), or the Attorney-General
of the Federation (acting in person or through any of his Legal Officers) shall
represent the Commission electoral officer, Presiding officer, returning officer
or other official of the Commission at the Tribunal or Court.
(4) A private Legal Practitioner engaged by the Commission under
subparagraph (3) shall be entitled to be paid his professional fees and a Legal
Officer so engaged shall be paid such honorarium as may be approved by the
Commission.
Duplicate of document
52. In the absence of express provision in this Schedule, a party filing
any document or process paper in connection with any step being taken in the
proceedings of an election petition shall, unless the Secretary otherwise directs,
leave with the Secretary copies of the document or process paper for service
on each of the parties to the election petition in addition to three copies which
the Secretary may preserve.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 445
Noncompliance with rules, etc.
53.—(1) Noncompliance with any of the provisions of this Schedule, or
with a rule of practice for the time being operative, except otherwise stated or
implied, shall not render any proceeding void, unless the Tribunal or Court so
directs, but the proceeding may be set aside wholly or in part as irregular, or
amended, or otherwise dealt with in such manner and on such terms as the
Tribunal or Court may deem fit and just.
(2) An application to set aside an election petition or a proceeding
resulting there from for irregularity or for being a nullity, shall not be allowed
unless made within a reasonable time and when the party making the application
has not taken any fresh step in the proceedings after knowledge of the defect.
(3) An application to set aside an election petition or a proceeding
pertaining thereto shall show clearly the legal grounds on which the application
is based.
(4) An election petition shall not be defeated by an objection as to form
if it is possible at the time the objection is raised to remedy the defect either by
way of amendment or as may be directed by the Tribunal or Court.
(5) An objection challenging the regularity or competence of an election
petition shall be heard and determined after the close of pleadings.
Application of rules of court
54. Subject to the express provisions of this Act, the practice and
procedure of the Tribunal or the Court in relation to an election petition shall
be as nearly as possible, similar to the practice and procedure of the Federal
High Court in the exercise of its civil jurisdiction, and the Civil Procedure
Rules shall apply with such modifications as may be necessary to render them
applicable having regard to the provisions of this Act, as if the petitioner and
the respondent were respectively the plaintiff and the defendant in an ordinary
civil action.
Practice and procedure of Court of Appeal and Supreme Court
55. Subject to the provisions of this Act, an appeal to the Court of
Appeal or to the Supreme Court shall be determined in accordance with the
practice and procedure relating to civil appeals in the Court of Appeal or of
the Supreme Court, as the case may be, regard being had to the need for
urgency on electoral matters.
A 446 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
FIRST SCHEDULE Paragraph 4
FORM TF 001
ELECTORAL ACT, 2022
IN THE NATIONAL ELECTION TRIBUNAL/ COURT OF APPEAL
HOLDEN AT …………………………………………………........................................….
Petition No.……………......…………The election to the …….....................………. for
…..............…………………............. Constituency or the office of ……………held on
the ....…… day of ……………., 20…....
Between
A.B. ………………………………………………………………...
}
(Plaintiff(s)
C.D. ………………………………….………................................
And
E.F.. ………………………………………………………………...
}
(Respondent(s)
G.H..………………………………….………................................
PETITION
The petition of A.B. of .........................……………………….……………………..
(orA.B. of ……..................…… and C.D. of ………………………….............................
as the case may be) whose names are subscribed.Your petitioner A.B. was a candidate at
the above election or claims to have had a right to contest or be returned at the above
election or was a registered political party and your petition
…………………………………………………. (here state in like manner the right of
each petitioner ………………………………………….. and your petitioner(s) state(s)
that the election was held on the …………………… day of ……………………………,
20………... when A.B. (and C.D.) and E.F. (and G.H.) were candidate(s). And your
petitioner(s) state(s) that (here stated facts and grounds on which the petitioner(s) rely
….......................……............................ Wherefore your petitioner(s) pray(s) that it may
be determined that the said E.F. (and G.H.) was (were) not duly elected (or returned) and
that their (or his) election was void or that the said A.B. (and C.D.) was (were) elected and
ought to have been returned, or as the case may be.
Signed
……………...................……………………………………………………………A.B
...............………………….……………………………………………………………C.D.
Address for service ..............………………………………………………………..
…………………………………………............................…………………………………
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 447
Thename of any (or our) Solicitor is ....................................................……. or I (or we)
am (or are) acting for myself (or ourselves).
Signed…....................…....………………………….....................…...B. (Petitioners)
……………………………………………………………………..............................…C.D.
Signed before me this.....………… day of ..............…………………..20………….……
........................……………………….
Secretary
A 448 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
FIRST SCHEDULE Paragraph 3
FORM TF 002
ELECTORAL ACT, 2022
IN THE NATIONAL ELECTION TRIBUNAL/ COURT OF APPEAL
HOLDEN AT …………………………………………………........................................….
Petition No………………………………
Between
:…...………............................…….....……….……………….......………Petitioner(s)
and
………………………………………………............................…………Respondent(s)
RECEIPT OF PETITION
Received on the ………………… day of ………………......................, 20.....…… at
the Registry of the Tribunal, a petition concerning the election of ............................……as
a member ………...........….……of ……………….............to………………..the office
of …….......................……………………………………………… purporting to be
signed by....................………………..................................……………………………
Dated this ……....…… day of ....…............……………… 20………………..
……………………………….............
Secretary
Secretary for Service on : Petitioner
……………………………………..
……………………………………..
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 449
FIRST SCHEDULE Paragraph 7
FORM TF 003
ELECTORAL ACT, 2022
IN THE NATIONAL ELECTION TRIBUNAL/ COURT OF APPEAL
HOLDEN AT …………………………………………………........................................….
Petition No………………………………
Between
:…...………............................…….....……….…………….......…………Petitioner(s)
and
………………………………………………............................…………Respondent(s)
To : Respondent(s)
NOTICE OF PRESENTATION OF PETITION
TAKE NOTICE that a petition, a duplicate whereof is attached hereto, has this day been
presented in the Registry of the Tribunal/Court of Appeal named above and that you are to
enter an appearance in respect of the petition to the said Registry within
…………………………. days of the date when this notice was left at your address as set
out below, or as the Court may direct by order under paragraph 8 (2) of First Schedule to
this Act, otherwise proceedings on the petition may be continued and determined in default
of your appearance, and any document intended for you may be posted up on the notice
board, which shall be sufficient notice thereof.
Dated this ……....…… day of ....…............……………… 20………………..
……………………………….............
Secretary
To :…………………………......…..
……………………………………..
......................................................
A 450 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
FIRST SCHEDULE Paragraph 9
FORM TF 004
ELECTORAL ACT, 2022
IN THE NATIONAL ELECTION TRIBUNAL/ COURT OF APPEAL
HOLDEN AT …………………………………………………........................................….
Petition No………………………………
Between
:…...………............................…….....……….…………….......…………Petitioner(s)
and
………………………………………………............................…………Respondent(s)
To : The Secretary
MEMORANDUM OF APPEARANCE
Election Tribunal/Court of Appeal
Please enter appearance for ………………………....…………….......………................
Who is ……………………………………………….....................................................
in the above election petition.
The name and address of his Solicitor are as follows :
.........…………………………………….........……
…………………………........................…….........
…………………………........................…….........
Dated this …………………. day of …..…........…………… 20…........
……………………….................
Signed
For Service on Petitioner …..................…………………………
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 451
FIRST SCHEDULE Paragraph 20
FORM TF 005
ELECTORAL ACT, 2022
IN THE NATIONAL ELECTION TRIBUNAL/ COURT OF APPEAL
HOLDEN AT …………………………………………………........................................….
Petition No………………………………
Between
:…...………............................…….....……….…………….......…………Petitioner(s)
and
………………………………………………............................…………Respondent(s)
The petition of ……………………………………………...........……….. Petitioner) of
….............………………………………………………………………………….. (or
…………………………..... of …………………of……..…………………... and
………………………………………(Petitioners) as the case may be) whose name(s)
are subscribed.
NOTICE OF HEARING
TAKE NOTICE the above election petition will be heard at ………..................…… on
………….. the ….....… day of .................………… 20………….. and on such other
days as the Court of Appeal may determine.
Dated this ………………. day of ……..............……………… 20………….
……………………………………
Secretary
Address for Service on :
Petitioner ................……………………...............
……………………………....................................
Respondent ……………………………….............
..........................................................……...........
A 452 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
FIRST SCHEDULE Paragraph 25 (3)
FORM TF 006
ELECTORAL ACT, 2022
IN THE NATIONAL ELECTION TRIBUNAL/ COURT OF APPEAL
HOLDEN AT …………………………………………………........................................….
Petition No………………………………
Between
:…...………............................…….....……….…………….......…………Petitioner(s)
and
………………………………………………............................…………Respondent(s)
NOTICE OF MOTION TO WITHDRAW PETITION
TAKE NOTICE that this Honourable Tribunal/Court will be moved on ……… the …………
day of …...............….…… 20….......… at the hour of 9 o’clock in the forernoon or as
soon thereafter as the Petitioner or Counsel on his behalf can be heard praying the Tribunal/
Court for an order enabling the Petitioner to withdraw the above petition on the following
ground (s) :……………...................................…………………….....................……..
Dated this …………..day of …..........……………….., 20....….......….
……………………………………
Petitioner(s) or Solicitor
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 453
FIRST SCHEDULE Paragraph 18 (1)
FORM TF 007
ELECTORAL ACT, 2022
IN THE NATIONAL ELECTION TRIBUNAL/ COURT OF APPEAL
HOLDEN AT …………………………………………………........................................….
Petition No………………………………
Between
:…...………............................…….....……….…………….......…………Petitioner(s)
and
………………………………………………............................…………Respondent(s)
…….............…………………………..............................
…….............…………………………..............................
…….............…………………………..............................
To ……….............……………………............................. (insert name of parties)
HEARING NOTICE FOR PRE-HEARING SESSION
Take Notice that you are required to attend the Tribunal/Court on the …………… day of
………. 20 ……. at 9 o’clock in the forenoon, for a Pre-Hearing Session for the purposes
set out hereunder :
1.—(a) disposal of all matters which must or can be dealt with on interlocutory
application ;
(b) giving directions as to the future of the petition as appear best adapted to secure its
just, expeditious and economical disposal in view of the urgency of election petitions ;
(c) giving directions on order of witnesses to be called and such documents to be
tendered by each party to prove their cases having in view of the need to expeditious
disposal of the petition ;
(d) fixing clear dates for hearing of the petition.
2. Please answer the questions in the attached Pre-Hearing Information Sheet (Form
TF 008) on a separate sheet and submit seven clear days before the above mentioned date.
Take Notice that if you do not attend in person or by Legal Practitioner at the time and
place mentioned such proceeding will be taken and such order will be made as the Tribunal
or Court may deem just an expedient.
Dated the ………..…… day of................………………………., 20………….
Signed .................……………………..
Secretary
A 454 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
FIRST SCHEDULE Paragraph 18 (2)
FORM TF 008
ELECTORAL ACT, 2022
IN THE NATIONAL ELECTION TRIBUNAL/ COURT OF APPEAL
HOLDEN AT …………………………………………………........................................….
Petition No………………………………
Between
:…...………............................…….....……….…………….......…………Petitioner(s)
and
………………………………………………............................…………Respondent(s)
PRE-HEARING INFORMATION SHEET
This Pre-Hearing Information Sheet is intended to include reference to all applications
which the parties would wish to make at the Pre-Hearing Session. Information Sheet should
be entered under item 14 below.
All parties shall not, later than seven days before the first Pre-Hearing Session file and
serve on all parties :
(a) all applications in respect of matters to be dealt with before hearing including but
not limited to the matters listed hereunder,
(b) written answers to the questions contained in this Pre-Hearing Information Sheet.
1. Do you require that this action be considered with any other action(s)? If so give
particulars.
2. Are amendments to a petition, reply or other process required?
3. Are further and better particulars of any petition or reply required? If so specify
what particulars are required.
4. If you intend to make any additional admissions, give details.
5. Are there witnesses you may now wish to call.
6. Will interpreters be required for any witness? If so, state in what language.
7. Is this a case in which the use of a single or joint expert might be suitable? If not
state reasons.
8. Is there any way in which the Tribunal or Court can assist the parties to resolve
their dispute or particular issues in it without the need for a hearing or full hearing?
9. Have you considered any lawful means of resolving or narrowing down the dispute
or particular issues in it? If yes state the steps that have been taken. If not state reasons.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 455
10. List the paragraphs of the petition/reply you are admitting.
11. List the documents you are consenting to.
12. List the documents you are disputing and the reasons for the dispute.
13. List the witnesses you feel may not be necessary for any party to call and state
your reasons for the opinion.
14. List the applications you which to make the Pre-Hearing Session.
Dated this …............… day of ........…………………………, 20……..
Signed ………………………………………..........
(Legal Practitioner for the ………………...........…)
For service on:……………………………......
.......................……………………………….
A 456 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
SUPPLEMENTAL TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
1.The statutory functions, rights, interests, obligations and liabilities of the Independent
National Electoral Commission established under the Electoral Act 2006, existing before the
commencement of this Act under any contract or instrument, or in law or in equity shall, by
virtue of this Act, be deemed to have been assigned to and vested in the Independent
National Electoral Commission established under this Act.
2. Any such contract or instrument as is mentioned in subsection (1), shall be of the
same force and effect against or in favour of the Independent National Electoral Commission
established by this Act and shall be enforceable as fully and effectively as if instead of the
Independent National Electoral Commission existing before the commencement of this Act,
the Independent National Electoral Commission established by this Act has been named
therein or had been a party thereto.
3. The Independent National Electoral Commission established by this Act shall be
subject to all the obligations and liabilities to which the Independent National Electoral
Commission existing before the commencement of this Act was subject immediately before
the commencement of this Act and all other persons shall have the same rights, powers and
remedies against the Independent National Electoral Commission established by this Act as
they had against the Independent National Electoral Commission of Nigeria existing before
the commencement of the Act.
4. Any proceeding or cause of action pending or existing immediately before the
commencement of this Act, by or against the Independent National Electoral Commission
existing before the commencement of this Act in respect of any right, interest, obligation or
liability of the Independent National Electoral Commission existing before the commencement
of this Act may be continued or may be commenced and any determination of the court of
law, tribunal or other authority or person may be enforced by or against the Independent
National Electoral Commission established by this Act to the same extent as would have
been against the Independent National Electoral Commission existing before the
commencement of this Act.
5. All assets, funds, resources and other movable or immovable property, which
immediately before the commencement of this Act, were vested in the Independent National
Electoral Commission, existing before the commencement of this Act shall by virtue of this
Act and without further assurance, be vested in the Independent National Electoral
Commission established by this Act.
6. Any person who immediately before the coming into effect of this Act is the holder
of any office in the Independent National Electoral Commission existing before the
commencement of this Act shall, on the commencement of this Act, and subject to the
provisions of the Constitution, continue in office and be deemed to have been appointed to
his office by the Independent National Electoral Commission established by this Act unless
the authority by which the person was appointed terminates the appointment.
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 457
SECOND SCHEDULE Section 26 (1)
INDEPENDENT NATIONAL ELECTORAL COMMISSION
OATH/AFFIRMATION OF NEUTRALITY
I, ...................................................................................do solemnly swear/
affirm that I will be faithful to the Federal Republic of Nigeria; that
as.................................................. I will discharge my duties to the best of
my ability in accordance with the Constitution of the Federal Republic of
Nigeria, the Electoral Act and the Guidelines issued by the Independent National
Electoral Commission; that I will do right to all candidates and political parties
according to law without fear or favour, affection or ill-will. So help me God.
......................................
Deponent
Sworn to/Affirmed at ............................. this ............................ day of
……….. 20………..Before me
..................................................................................
Resident Electoral Commissioner Electoral Officer
A 458 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
THIRD SCHEDULE
ELECTORAL ACT, 2022
SECTION A
FORM EC. 1
APPLICATION FOR INCLUSION IN REGISTER OF VOTERS
To the Registration Officer……………………………………………….
…………………………...Constituency………………………20………...
of ….......................................………………………. apply to be included
in the Preliminary List of the Register of Voters for the above constituency
upon the grounds :
1. That I am a citizen of Nigeria ;
2. That I am 18 years or above 18 years of age ;
3. That I am now ordinarily resident at ……............................…………
......................................................................................................
(here state town or village and if possible the street number if known)
4. And I declare that the above particulars are true to the best of my
belief and —
* (a) that I am not already registered in this or any other Preliminary List
or Register of Voters under the above Act (or I request that my name be
entered in the appropriate list) ; or
*(b) that I have already registered, but wish my name transferred to the
area of my new abode. Particular of my former place of residence are
given below—
CODE
STATE ......................………………………………………….…............
LOCAL GOVERNMENT AREA ...................................………………...
REGISTRATION AREA ………………………………............................
REGISTRATION UNIT…………………………………….......................
VOTER’S NUMBER……………………………………….........................
VOTER’S NAME ………………………..............................…………….
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 459
SECTION B
APPLICANT’S OTHER PARTICULARS (IN CAPITALS)
5. NAME IN FULL ….................……………………………..………......
(Family Name First)
6. OCCUPATION.................................................……………………….
7. AGE.................…………………………...………...............................
8. SEX MALE (M) ……………........ FEMALE (F) .……………….........
9. ADDRESS (i.e. House Number, Street Name or Name of Village or
Hamlet) ……………………............……………………………………
* Signed ...........................................…………………………….
* Right thumb print impressed in the presence of witness to thumb print.
…………………………………............................................……………
……........................……...........................................……………………
* Cross out whichever is inapplicable.
A 460 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
ELECTORAL ACT, 2022
FORM EC.2
CLAIM FOR CORRECTION OF OUR INSERTION OF NAME IN
PRELIMINARY LIST
To the Supervisory Assistant Registration Officer ................………. WARD
I, .........................………………………………………......................…
of…...…………….............hereby declare.
1. That I applied for inclusion in the Supplementary List for the Updating
Register of Voters for the above Ward on the …………...……………
20…………. and that my particulars have been omitted/inaccurately stated.
2. I am a citizen of Nigeria.
3. I am 18 years of age or over.
4. I am ordinary resident at the above address
or.....................................................................................…………
5. I hereby apply for the Supplementary List to be completed/corrected
accordingly.
6. I declare that the above particulars are true to the best of my belief
and that I am not already registered in this or any Supplementary List or
Register of Voters
..................................... ..........................................
Date Signature or Thumb Print
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 461
FORM EC.3
OBJECTION TO NAME IN SUPPLEMENTARY LIST
To the Supervisory/Assistant Registration/Officer........................................
Constituency…...........…………..……20…......of….............................…
Address …………………………………………………………..Whose
name appears in the Supplementary List for the above Ward hereby give
notice: That I object to the inclusion in such list of the name of
…..................……………………...whose address is given as
….......................................……..........……………… on the following
grounds ………….......………....................................................…………
………….......………....................................................…………...........
………….......………....................................................…………...........
………….......………....................................................…………...........
(Here insert the Grounds)
I wish to produce the following witnesses...................................................
….......................…………………………...........................……..………
……………………………………............................................................
Signed……..........................Registered Voter ................……………………
Dated this .....………… day of ….....………......……, 20…......……
A 462 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
FORM EC 3
NOTIFICATION OF DEATH OF A PERSON NAMED
IN THE REGISTER OF VOTERS
To the Registration Officer,…...……Constituency......……….. 20…………
I,.............................................................……………………………of
....................………………………….........hereby give notice that
……………………………………………......…..............................the
Register of Voters .......…………………… Registration Centre as
…....……...……. is dead.
I wish to produce the following evidence witness………………..................
...............................................................................................................
…………………………………
Signed
Electoral Act, 2022 2022 No. 13 A 463
I, certify, in accordance with Section 2 (1) of the Acts Authentication Act,
Cap. A2, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004, that this is a true copy of
the Bill passed by both Houses of the National Assembly.
OJO, O. A., fnia, fcia
Clerk to the National Assembly
31st Day of January, 2022.
EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM
This Act repeals the Electoral Act No. 6, 2010 and enacts the Electoral Act
2022, to regulate the conduct of Federal, State and Area Council elections, to
make provisions for the restriction of the qualification for elective office to
relevant provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999,
use of card readers and other technological devices in elections and political
party primaries, to provide a time line for the submission of list of candidates,
criteria for substitution of candidates, limit of campaign expenses, and address
the omission of names of candidates or logo of political parties.
A 464 2022 No. 13 Electoral Act, 2022
2202
,LLIB
LAROTCELE
EHT
OT
ELUDEHCS
)5(
)4(
)3(
)2(
)1(
yb
dessaP
etaD
yb
dessaP
etaD
eht
fo
yrammuS
eht
fo
eltiT
gnoL
eltiT
trohS
fo
esuoH
eht
etaneS
eht
lliB
eht
fo
stnetnoC
lliB
lliB
eht
fo
sevitatneserpeR
,yraunaJ
ht52
,yraunaJ
ht52
.oN
,tcA
larotcelE
eht
slaeper
lliB
sihT
.oN
,tcA
larotcelE
eht
laeper
ot
tcA
nA
larotcelE
.2202
.2202
,tcA
larotcelE
eht
stcane
dna
0102
,6
,tcA
larotcelE
eht
tcane
dna
0102
,6
.2202
,lliB
fo
tcudnoc
eht
etaluger
ot
,2202
fo
tcudnoc
eht
etaluger
ot
2202
ni
slicnuoC
aerA
dna
etatS
,laredeF
eht
ni
slicnuoC
aerA
dna
etatS
,laredeF
.snoitcele
yrotirreT
latipaC
laredeF
eht
dna
;
snoitcele
yrotirreT
latipaC
laredeF
.srettam
detaler
rof
eb
ot
em
yb
dnuof
dna
ylbmessA
lanoitaN
eht
yb
dehcaer
noisiced
eht
htiw
em
yb
derapmoc
ylluferac
neeb
sah
lliB
siht
taht
yfitrec
I
fo
swaL
,2A
.paC
tcA
noitacitnehtuA
stcA
eht
fo
snoisivorp
eht
htiw
ecnadrocca
ni
si
dna
sesuoH
eht
fo
noisiced
tcerroc
dna
eurt
.4002
,airegiN
fo
noitaredeF
eht
aicf
,ainf
,.A
.O
,OJO
ylbmessA
lanoitaN
eht
ot
krelC
.2202
,yraunaJ
fo
yaD
ts13
SL
RFCG
,IRAHUB
UDAMMAHUM
TNESSA
I
airegiN
fo
cilbupeR
laredeF
eht
fo
tnediserP
.2202
,yraurbeF
fo
yaD
ht52
