NIGERIAN INSURANCE INDUSTRY REFORM ACT, 2025
EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM
This Act makes comprehensive legal framework for the regulation and supervision of all manner
of insurance businesses in Nigeria.
NIGERIAN INSURANCE INDUSTRY REFORM ACT, 2025
Arrangement of Sections
Section:
PART I — OBJECTIVES AND APPLICATION
1. Objectives
2. Application
PART II — CLASSIFICATION
3. Classification of insurance business
4. Restriction on the use of the word “insurance” or “underwriter”
PART III — LICENSING AND OPERATION OF INSURER
5. Conditions for licensing
6. Specialisation
7. Rejection of application
8. Cancellation of licence
9. Power to vary the conditions of a license
10. Operating an unlicensed insurance business
11. Holding company
12. Appointment and change of principal officers
13. Disqualification for appointment as principal officer
14. Principal place of business
PART IV — CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS
15. Minimum capital requirements
16. Minimum capital to be deposited with the Central Bank of Nigeria
PART V — OPERATION OF INSURANCE COMPANY
17. Delivery of policy document
18. Approval of new insurance products
19. Records to be kept by an insurer
20. Records to be kept by a reinsurer
21. Provisions for unexpired risks and claims (insurance reserves)
22. Reserves for life assurance business
23. General reserve fund for reinsurers
24. Capital adequacy
25. Risk-based approach
26. Determination of required capital
27. Investment of policy holders’ funds
28. Penalty in relation to investments
29. Statement of accounts
30. Quarterly returns
31. Life assurance returns
32. Non-life insurance returns
33. Audits
34. Termination of auditor's appointment by insurer
35. Restriction on dividend
36. Exemption of retirement life annuity from taxation
PART VI — INSURANCE INTERMEDIARIES
37. Insurance agents
38. Duties of insurance agents in relation to remittance of premiums
39. Licensing of insurance brokers
40. Reinsurance broking
41. Renewal of licence of an insurance or reinsurance broker
42. Cancellation of licence of an insurance or reinsurance broker
43. Requirement as to indemnity cover
44. Records of transactions and other documents to be kept by insurance brokers
45. Suspension of licence
46. Audit of insurance broker
47. Insurance broker to establish clients' account
48. Licencing of loss adjusters
49. Renewal of licence of loss adjusters
50. Cancellation of licence of a loss adjuster
51. Records to be kept by loss adjuster
52. Attendance to claims by foreign loss adjusters
PART VII — ACTUARY
53. An Actuary
54. Powers of the Commission to appoint Actuary
55. Powers of Actuary
56. Obligations of Actuary
57. Annual investigations
58. Valuation by statutory Actuary
59. Actuarial investigation and report
PART VIII — PREMIUMS AND COMMISSIONS
60. Payment of insurance premium
61. Payment of premium through a broker
62. Payment of insurance commission
63. Administration of certain discounts and rebates
PART IX — INSURANCE CONTRACTS: DISCLOSURE, CONDITIONS AND
WARRANTIES
64. Proposal form
65. Breach of material and relevant terms
66. Insurable interest
67. Policy document to specify insured or event
68. Special requirements relating to group life assurance
69. Missing employee
70. Limitation on amount receivable
71. Right of assignee to sue
72. Notice of assignment
73. Acknowledgement of notice of assignment
74. Provisions inapplicable to marine insurance
75. Insurance of building under construction
76. Insurance of public buildings
77. Insurance of Government assets and employees
78. Insurance of petroleum and gas stations and products in transit
79. Application of proceed of claims on houses destroyed by fire
80. Professional indemnity by health care providers
81. Aviation insurance
82. Insurance of import of goods and merchandise
83. Ad-hoc committee on compulsory insurance business
PART X — MOTOR VEHICLES (THIRD PARTY) INSURANCE
84. Insurance against third party-risks
85. Limitation of time for proceedings
86. Exemptions
87. Requirements in respect of policies and certificates of insurance
88. Certain conditions in policies to be of no effect
89. Avoidance of restriction on third-party policies
90. Duty of insurer to satisfy judgments
91. Rights of third parties against insurers
92. Duty to give information to third parties
93. Certain settlements between insurer and insured to be of no effect
94. Bankruptcy of insured person not to affect certain claims
95. Further right of third parties against insurers
96. Further right of third parties against insurers and certificates to be produced
97. Duty of owner
98. False statements or forging of certificates
99. Road Accident Victims’ Compensation Fund
100. Road Accident Victims’ Compensation Committee
101. General penalty under this Part
102. Interpretation in this part
PART XI — ECOWAS BROWN CARD SCHEME
103. Establishment of the National Bureau on the ECOWAS Brown Card Scheme
104. Savings and transitional provisions pertaining to the Bureau
105. Appointment of staff by the Bureau
106. Police report in motor accidents cases
PART XII — ACQUISITIONS, AMALGAMATIONS AND TRANSFERS
107. Procedure for amalgamation
108. Post amalgamation returns (documents to be deposited)
109. Prohibition law
PART XIII — WINDING-UP
110. Appointment of receiver or provisional liquidator
111. Petition for winding-up in other cases
112. Prohibition of voluntary winding-up
113. Continuation of life insurance business in liquidation
114. Exemption of insurance funds from liquidation or garnishee
PART XIV — MARINE INSURANCE
115. Marine insurance defined
116. Mixed sea and land risks
117. Marine adventure and maritime perils
118. Avoidance of wagering or gaming contracts
119. Insurable interest in marine insurance
120. When interest attaches
121. Defeasible or contingent interest
122. Partial interest
123. Reinsurance
124. Bottomry
125. Master's and seamen's wages
126. Advance freight
127. Charges of insurance
128. Quantum of interest
129. Assignment of interest
130. Measure of insurable value
131. Disclosure and representations before contract or variation
132. The duty of fair representation
133. Knowledge of insured
134. Knowledge of insurer
135. Knowledge: general
136. Supplementary
137. Remedies for breach
138. Good faith
139. Representation pending negotiation of contract
140. When contract deemed to be concluded
141. Contract to be embodied in a policy
142. Name of insured to be specified in policy document
143. Signature of insurer
144. Designation of subject matter
145. Floating policy by ship or ships
146. Double insurance
147. Breach of warranty
148. Express warranties
149. Warranty of neutrality
150. No implied warranty of nationality
151. Warranty of good safety
152. Warranty of seaworthiness of ship
153. No implied warranty that goods are seaworthy
154. Warranty of legality
155. Implied condition as to commencement
156. Alteration of port of departure
157. Sailing for different destination
158. Change of voyage
159. Deviation
160. Several ports of discharge
161. Discharge from liability due to unreasonable delay in voyage
162. Excuses for deviation or delay
163. Assignability of policy
164. Insured who has no interest shall not assign
165. Effect of acknowledgment of premium on policy
166. Specifically covered and excluded losses
167. Total and partial loss
168. Actual total loss
169. Missing ship
170. Effect of transshipment
171. Constructive total loss
172. Treatment of constructive total loss
173. Notice of abandonment
174. Effect of abandonment
175. Partial losses
176. Salvage charges
177. General average loss
178. Proportional liability of insurer for loss
179. Total loss
180. Partial loss of a ship
181. Partial loss of freight
182. Partial loss of goods, merchandise and other moveables
183. Apportionment of valuation
184. General average contribution and salvage charges
185. Liabilities to third parties
186. General provisions as to measure of indemnity
187. Particular average warranties
188. Successive losses
189. Suing and labouring clause
190. Right of contribution
191. Effect of under insurance
192. Enforcement of return of premium
193. Return by agreement
194. Return for failure of consideration
195. Ratification by the insured
196. Implied obligations varied by agreement or usage
197. Slip as evidence
198. Gambling on loss by maritime perils prohibited
199. Interpretation of this Part
200. Regulations for the operation of specialised insurance institutions
201. Operation of web aggregators
202. Anti-money laundering, combating financing of terrorism and proliferation of weapons of
mass destruction
203. Insurance of container
204. Contract with foreign insurer and reinsurer
205. Contracts of general insurance-entitlements of third-party beneficiaries
206. Internal control system of insurance operators
207. Duty of insurers to report fraudulent insurance conduct
208. Advertisement
209. Misleading statements
210. Claims settlement
211. Restriction on loans to directors
212. Insurance policyholder protection fund
213. Offences as to returns
214. Production of documents
215. Right of subrogation
216. Human resource training for special risk business
217. Service of process
218. Penalty for non-compliance
219. Fees
220. Application of the provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act
221. Compounding of offences and imposition of criminal penalties for infractions
222. Recovery of sums involved in the commission of offences
223. Offences by body corporate
224. Jurisdiction and prosecution
225. Obstruction of public officers
226. Misrepresentation by public officers
227. Protection against adverse claims
228. Power to make regulations
229. Repeal and savings provision
230. Application to other laws
231. Interpretation
232. Citation
Schedules
NIGERIAN INSURANCE INDUSTRY REFORM ACT, 2025
A Bill
For
An Act to repeal the Insurance Act, Cap. I17, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004, the Marine
Insurance Act, Cap. M2 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004, the Motor Vehicles (Third Party
Insurance) Act, Cap. M22, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004, the National Insurance
Corporation of Nigeria Act, Cap. N54, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004 and the Nigeria
Reinsurance Corporation Act, Cap. N131, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004, and enact the
Nigerian Insurance Industry Reform Act, 2025 to provide for a comprehensive legal and regulatory
framework for insurance business in Nigeria; and for related matters.
[ ] Commencement
ENACTED by the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria —
PART I — OBJECTIVES AND APPLICATION
1. (1) The objectives of this Act are to — Objectives
(a) regulate the insurance industry in order to develop the insurance sector; and
(b) protect the interest of policyholders, prospective policyholders and other
stakeholders under insurance policies in ways that are consistent with the
continued development of a viable, competitive and innovative insurance
industry.
(2) This Act, the regulations and other regulatory instruments issued by the Commission
under this Act, shall achieve the objectives referred to in subsection (1) by —
(a) determining who carries on insurance business in Nigeria and requiring
insurance operators, the directors and the management of insurance
operators to meet certain suitability requirements;
(b) imposing on insurance operators, requirements to promote prudent
management, good business practices and good corporate governance; and
(c) providing for an effective mechanism for settlement of insurance disputes.
2. (1) Except as otherwise provided by this Act, the provisions of this Act shall apply to Application
regulation and supervision of all insurance businesses, and insurance operators in
Nigeria.
(2) This Act applies to all insurance businesses and insurers, other than insurance businesses
carried on or by insurers of the following description —
(a) a friendly society that is an association of persons established with no share
for the purposes of aiding its members or their dependents where such
association does not employ any person whose main occupation is the —
(i) canvassing of other persons to become members of the association,
or
(ii) collecting of contributions or subscriptions towards the funds of the
association from its members;
(b) a company or any other body, whether corporate or unincorporated, or
person whose business is established outside Nigeria, engaged solely in
reinsurance transactions with an insurer authorised or under the provisions
of this Act to carry on any class of insurance business, but not otherwise;
and
(c) deposit insurance carried out by the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation
Act No. 33, 2023
established under the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation Act.
(3) Without prejudice to the provisions of subsection (2), no cooperative shall engage in the
business of any form of insurance made compulsory by law.
PART II — CLASSIFICATION
3. (1) There shall be for the purpose of this Act two main categories of insurance business, Classification of
insurance
that is —
business
(a) life insurance business; and
(b) non-life insurance business.
(2) In the case of life assurance business, there shall be four classes, that is —
(a) individual life assurance business;
(b) group life assurance business;
(c) annuity; and
(d) health insurance business.
(3) In the case of non-life insurance business, there shall be eight classes, that is —
(a) fire insurance business;
(b) general accident insurance business;
(c) motor vehicle insurance business;
(d) marine and aviation insurance businesses;
(e) energy (oil, gas and power) insurance business;
(f) engineering insurance business;
(g) bonds credit guarantee and suretyship insurance business; and
(h) agricultural insurance business, other than schemes covered by the Nigerian
Cap. N89, LFN,
Agricultural Insurance Corporation Act.
2004
(4) There shall also be miscellaneous insurance business, including financial inclusion
insurance business.
(5) The Commission may publish additional list of classes in the Federal Government
Gazette.
(6) For the purposes of this Act —
(a) any part of an insurance business may be treated as part of a particular class
of insurance business; and
(b) reinsurance of liabilities under an insurance policy shall be treated as
insurance business of the class to which such policy belonged if it had been
issued by the reinsurer.
(7) Subject to this Act, an insurer may be authorised to transact any new category of
miscellaneous insurance business if he shows evidence of adequate reinsurance
arrangement in respect of that category of insurance business and requisite capital where
necessary, and other conditions as may be required by the Commission.
(8) The Commission may by rules, regulations or guidelines classify insurance business as
it may determine.
4. (1) A person other than an insurer, insurance broker, loss adjuster licensed under this Act Restriction on
the use of the
or an insurer's agent duly appointed shall not use the word "insurer" or any derivative
word "insurance"
of it as part of his business name or for describing the nature or object of such business.
or "underwriter"
(2) A person, other than an insurer licensed under this Act or a duly appointed insurance
agent shall not use the word "underwriter" or any derivative as part of his business name
or for describing the nature or object of such business.
(3) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) or (2), commits an offence
and is liable on conviction to a fine of ₦250,000 for every day or part in which the name
or description is so used.
PART III — LICENSING AND OPERATION OF INSURER
5. (1) A person shall not commence or carry on insurance, or reinsurance or related business Conditions for
in Nigeria unless licensed by the Commission as an insurer or a reinsurer under this Act. licensing
(2) An application for licensing as an insurer shall be made to the Commission in the
prescribed form and accompanied by such other documents or information as the
Commission may require.
(3) A person shall not be licensed as an insurer or a reinsurer under this Act except —
(a) incorporated as a limited liability company under the Companies and Allied Act No. 3 of
2020
Matters Act or established under any other law or enactment in Nigeria;
(b) the company has and maintains, while carrying on the business, the required
minimum capital as may be prescribed by the Commission;
(c) the company has paid and maintained such statutory deposit with the Central
Bank of Nigeria as may be prescribed by the Commission; and
(d) the company has met all other requirements specified by the Commission
which shall include submission of business plan that identifies the niche
market the applicant will address.
(4) The Commission shall publish and make available to the general public, a Service
Charter which shall provide for products and services of the Commission, and the
complete list of requirements to obtain the products and services.
(5) Where the Commission is satisfied that all requirements for licensing have been met, it
shall license the company within the relevant timeline for the type of license being
applied for in accordance with the Commission’s Service Charter.
(6) Any insurer incorporated in a foreign jurisdiction or its subsidiaries which —
(a) does not have physical presence in the country where it is incorporated and
licensed, and
(b) is not affiliated to any financial services group that is subject to effective
consolidated supervision,
shall not operate in Nigeria and no Nigerian insurer or its subsidiary shall
establish or continue any relationship with such insurer or subsidiary.
(7) A person resident in Nigeria or body corporate registered in Nigeria who carries on
insurance business in any part of the world other than Nigeria, shall for the purpose of
this Act be deemed to be an insurer carrying on insurance business within Nigeria.
6. (1) As from the commencement of this Act, the Commission shall license an insurer only Specialisation
in the categories specified in section 3 of this Act.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), a company —
(a) licensed to operate a life assurance business may own or acquire shares in a
non-life insurance company; and
(b) licensed to operate a non-life insurance business may own or acquire shares
in a life assurance company.
(3) The Commission may issue a combined or composite life and non-life licence to a
reinsurer.
(4) Existing composite insurance companies shall, within five years of the commencement
of this Act, comply with the provisions of subsection (1).
(5) Subject to satisfying any requirements as may be prescribed by the Commission, the
Commission shall license a reinsurer.
7. (1) The Commission may refuse to license a company for an application made under section Rejection of
5 of this Act where it is satisfied that the — application
(a) information contained in the application for licence is false in any material
particular;
(b) application does not meet the requirements prescribed by the Commission
for a licence; or
(c) licence of the applicant had earlier been revoked or cancelled by the
Commission under any of the provisions of this Act.
(2) Where the Commission refuses to license an applicant, it shall immediately notify the
applicant in the prescribed form stating the reasons for such refusal within the timeframe
provided in the Commission’s Service Charter.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1) and (2), the applicant, on satisfying
the condition stipulated in the notice may reapply to the Commission.
(4) An aggrieved applicant may appeal to the Board within 30 working days of receiving
the notice of refusal.
(5) The Board shall within 30 days of receiving an appeal give its decision on whether to
allow or reject the appeal and may impose such conditions as it deems fit where it allows
the appeal.
8. (1) Where the Commission is satisfied that a licensed insurer or reinsurer — Cancellation of
licence
(a) is not conducting insurance business in accordance with sound insurance
principles,
(b) has failed to satisfy the capital or solvency requirement as prescribed by the
Commission,
(c) has ceased to carry on the business of insurance and the primary purpose for
which it was registered for at least one year in Nigeria,
(d) has applied in writing for the cancellation of its licence as an insurer,
(e) has a judgment debt in relation to a judgment obtained against it from a
Court of competent jurisdiction in Nigeria which remains unsatisfied for 90
days and there is no appeal pending against the judgment,
(f) is carrying on simultaneously the insurance business with any other business
which is detrimental to its insurance business,
(g) subject to Part XIII of this Act, has transferred to or amalgamated with the
business of any other insurer,
(h) has refused to submit to an examination of its books as provided for in this
Act,
(i) has failed to comply with the provisions of this Act relating to filing of
returns with the Commission,
(j) has failed to maintain adequate reinsurance arrangements and treaties in
respect of the category of insurance business which the insurer or reinsurer
is authorised to transact,
(k) lacks the necessary expertise by virtue of a substantial reduction in the
number of its qualified employees,
(l) has a net asset below the minimum capital and capital injections have not
been made within the time stipulated by the Commission,
(m) has not less than five complaints of failure to pay claims promptly made
against it which the Commission has received and verified,
(n) has failed to set up the special reserves as prescribed by the Commission,
(o) acts in any manner, without the approval of the Commission, in cases where
this Act requires such approval,
(p) has been wound-up or dissolved or has gone into liquidation, or
(q) has failed to maintain reserves as required under this Act,
the Commission shall give notice in writing to the insurer of its intention to cancel
the licence of the insurer.
(2) The Commission shall, in the notice of its intention to cancel the licence of the insurer,
give the insurer a 30 days’ period within which to remedy any of the defects or breaches
identified in subsection (1) where the defects or breaches are capable of being remedied.
(3 Any such notice issued by the Commission in subsection (2) shall prevent the insurer
from carrying out any licensable activity within the specified period until the breach is
remedied.
(4) Where the defect or breach is not capable of being remedied or where it is not remedied
within the time specified by the Commission in the notice given, the Commission shall
proceed to cancel the licence of the insurer.
(5) Where the licence of an insurer is cancelled —
(a) the insurer shall immediately discontinue to accept any new business; and
(b) the Commission may, in all cases, act as a receiver from the date of
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Act or may appoint
any person to act on its behalf as a receiver of the company.
(6) An insurer whose licence has been cancelled by the Commission may within 30 days
after the notice of the Commission's cancellation of its licence, appeal to the Board in
writing setting out the grounds of appeal.
(7) The Board shall within 90 days of receiving the appeal give its decision on whether to
allow or reject the appeal and may impose such conditions as it may deem fit.
(8) Where an appeal is disallowed, the Commission shall cause a notice to be published in
the Federal Government Gazette or in such other manner to ensure publicity as it may
determine.
(9) An action to challenge the cancellation of the licence of an insurer on any ground
whatsoever shall only be instituted in the Federal High Court and such action shall be
heard and determined within a reasonable time from the date of the cancellation to which
the action relates.
(10) Where an appeal is filed against the decision of the court or the Insurance Tribunal, the
appeal shall be heard and disposed of by the appellate court within maximum period
of 90 days from the date the appeal is filed.
(11) An action in respect of the cancellation of the licence of an insurer shall not be
maintained unless such action is filed within a period of 60 days from the date of the
cancellation.
9. (1) The Commission may subject to Part II of this Act, vary any category or class of licence Power to vary
granted to an insurance institution on any of the conditions specified in the Second the conditions of
a licence
Schedule to this Act, or such additional conditions as may be prescribed by the
Commission.
Second Schedule
(2) Without prejudice to the power of the Commission to cancel the license of an insurer or
reinsurer in section 8 of this Act, the Commission may take over or assume control of
the insurance institution, and carry on its business and affairs or appoint persons to do
so on behalf of the Commission for such period as it may determine.
10. A person who transacts any insurance business without being licensed for that purpose Operating an
under this Act commits an offence and is liable on conviction, in the case of — unlicensed
insurance
business
(a) an individual, to a fine of ₦25,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of two
years or both; or
(b) a company, firm or other combination of persons, each principal officer of
the company, firm or other combination of persons responsible to a fine of
₦50,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of two years or both.
11. (1) Insurance operators licensed under this Act may operate a holding company structure. Holding
company
(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Commission shall make regulations for
insurance companies operating a holding company structure, regarding investing in any
business or establishing subsidiaries, including purchase and holding of shares, equity
or debenture or participation in joint venture with other businesses.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2), where an insurance company is a
subsidiary in a holding company structure, the Commission shall only regulate the
business of the insurance subsidiary and the contractual relationship between the
subsidiary and other members of the group:
Provided that such holding company does not in any way through its internal regulation
prevent the subsidiary from complying with any regulation of the Commission.
12. (1) An insurer shall not appoint or change any principal officer except with the prior written Appointment and
approval of the Commission. change of
principal officers
(2) An insurer shall notify the Commission of any change due to death, dismissal,
redundancy or resignation of any of its principal officers.
(3) An insurer who contravenes the provision of subsection (1) shall be liable to such
penalty as may be prescribed in regulations issued by the Commission.
13. (1) An insurer shall not appoint or have in its employment a chief executive, director, or Disqualification
principal officer if such a person — for appointment
as principal
officer
(a) is or becomes of unsound mind, or as a result of ill health, is incapable of
discharging his duties;
(b) is convicted of an offence involving dishonesty or fraud;
(c) is guilty of serious misconduct in relation to his duties;
(d) in the case of a person with professional qualification, has been disqualified
or suspended from practicing his profession in Nigeria by the order of any
competent authority made in respect of such a person;
(e) has been a director of or has been directly concerned with the management
of an insurance or financial institution whose licence to operate has been
cancelled or whose business has been wound-up on grounds specified in Act No. 3 of
2020
sections 571 (d) and 572 of the Companies and Allied Matters Act;
(f) is a person whose appointment with an insurance or a financial institution
has been terminated or dismissed for reason of fraud or dishonesty; or
(g) has been convicted by a court or tribunal of an offence of criminal
misappropriation of funds, breach of trust or cheating.
(2) An insurer shall not appoint as a director or have in its employment, a partner, director
or employee in a firm of insurance brokers or loss adjusters.
(3) An insurer who contravenes the provisions of this section is liable to such penalties as
shall be prescribed by the Commission.
14. (1) An insurer registered under this Act shall have a principal office in Nigeria where all Principal place
communications and notices are to be addressed. of business
(2) The Commission shall be notified in writing within 21 days of the location of the
principal office or any subsequent change.
(3) A postal box address or a private mail bag is insufficient for the purpose of subsection
(1).
(4) The inclusion of an address of an insurer or reinsurer in its application or in its annual
returns or any other return to the Commission shall not be deemed to satisfy the
obligation imposed by this section.
(5) Where an insurer contravenes the provisions of this section, the insurer and every
director shall be liable to a penalty of a sum of ₦500,000 for every day during which
the insurer so carries on business.
(6) An insurer may not open or close any branch office or representative office anywhere
within or outside Nigeria without the prior approval of the Commission.
(7) An insurer intending to close any of its branches or subsidiaries shall give notice in
writing to the Commission of its intention, at least six months before the date of the
intended closure or within such shorter period as may be allowed by the Commission.
PART IV — CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS
15. (1) A person shall not carry on insurance business in Nigeria unless the insurer has and Minimum capital
maintains, while carrying on that business, a minimum capital, in the case of — requirements
(a) non-life insurance business, the higher of —
(i) ₦15,000,000,000, or
(ii) risk-based capital determined by the Commission;
(b) life assurance business, the higher of —
(i) ₦10,000,000,000, or
(ii) risk-based capital determined by the Commission; and
(c) reinsurance business, the higher of —
(i) ₦35,000,000,000, or
(ii) risk-based capital determined by the Commission.
(2) In determining the risk-based capital required, the Commission shall take into
consideration the capital for insurance risk, market risk, credit risk and operational risk,
and apply such capital charges on assets and liabilities as shall be determined.
(3) For the purpose of this section, “capital charge” means the proportion of capital required
to take care of the potential deterioration of the economic value of an asset and the
uncertainty in estimating liability due to the occurrence of an adverse event.
(4) The minimum capital requirement specified in subsection (1) may in the case of a new
company consist of one or more of —
(a) Government Bonds and Treasury Bills; or
(b) cash and cash equivalent.
(5) The minimum capital requirement as specified in subsection (1) shall, in the case of
existing company, consist of one or more of —
(a) the excess of admissible assets over liabilities, less the amount of own shares
held by the firm;
(b) subordinated liabilities subject to approval by the Commission; and
(c) any other financial instrument as may be prescribed by the Commission.
(6) An insurer registered before the commencement of this Act shall comply with the
requirements within 12 months of the commencement of this Act.
(7) The Commission shall —
(a) cancel the registration of any insurer or reinsurer that fails to satisfy the
provisions of subsection (1) as it relates to the category of operation of such
insurer or reinsurer; and
(b) not later than 30 days after expiration of the period specified in subsection
(6), publish a list of all insurers that have complied with the provisions of
this section.
(8) Where the Commission considers it appropriate, having regard to the nature, size and
complexity of the insurance business carried on or proposed to be carried on by an
insurer, and to the insurer's risk profile, the Commission may issue a directive —
(a) requiring the insurer to increase its minimum capital to an amount higher
than the minimum specified in this section or the regulations made under
this section; or
(b) increasing the minimum capital requirements applicable to an insurer to a
higher sum than that specified in this section or the regulations made under
this section.
16. (1) An insurer intending to commence insurance business in Nigeria after the Minimum capital
commencement of this Act shall deposit the equivalent of 50% of the minimum capital to be deposited
with the Central
requirement referred to in section 15 of this Act with the Central Bank of Nigeria.
Bank of Nigeria
(2) Upon registration as an insurer, the Central Bank of Nigeria shall return 80% of the
statutory deposit, with interest to the insurer, not later than 60 days after registration.
(3) In the case of existing companies an equivalent of 10% of the minimum capital
stipulated in section 15 shall be deposited with the Central Bank of Nigeria.
(4) Any statutory deposit made under subsections (1) and (3) of this section shall be
invested by the Central Bank in treasury bills or such other securities as the Bank may
determine from time to time and the income thereof shall be payable to the insurance
institutions bi-annually.
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (4), the Commission may mandate the
Central Bank to invest the statutory deposit in such other secured investment
guaranteed by the Federal Government.
(6) The statutory deposit made pursuant to this section shall not be subject of garnishee
and shall only be applied in line with the provisions of this Act and any withdrawal
from the statutory deposit shall be made good within 60 days, failure of which shall
constitute a ground for suspension from business and such suspension shall be
published in at least two widely circulated newspapers in Nigeria.
(7) Failure to deposit the statutory deposit shall constitute a ground for cancellation of the
insurer's licence.
(8) Upon successful registration of an applicant as an insurer under this Act, the
Commission shall –
(a) communicate to the Central Bank of Nigeria in writing, of the registration
of the insurer; and
(b) request the Central Bank of Nigeria to comply with the provision of
subsection (2).
PART V — OPERATION OF INSURANCE COMPANY
17. (1) The policy document in respect of a contract of insurance shall be delivered to the Delivery of
insured on or before the commencement of the policy. policy document
(2) An insurer who contravenes the provisions of this section shall be liable to a penalty of
not more than 5% of the premium received and such other penalties as may be
prescribed in regulations issued by the Commission.
(3) An insurer shall not be entitled to rely on any term, condition or warranty in a policy
of insurance to refuse a claim where it is established that the policy document was not
delivered to the insured or his broker before the loss occurred, except where the loss
occurs within the period specified in subsection (1).
(4) The means of delivery of policy document under this section shall include physical
delivery by insurer, agent, broker or courier services providers, email or other
contractual electronic means.
(5) Where email or other contractual electronic means are deployed, the insurer is bound
to ensure that the policy document was actually received.
18. (1) New product shall not be introduced into any class or category of insurance business Approval of new
without the prior approval of the Commission. insurance
products
(2) The approval or otherwise of the Commission shall be communicated within 30 days
of the receipt of the application or such other period as may be specified in the Service
Charter, and where the Commission does not communicate its approval, or disapproval
within the period specified, the application shall be deemed approved.
(3) An insurer who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) is liable to a penalty of
₦500,000 for each day the contravention subsists.
(4) Where the Commission fails to communicate its feedback within 30 days, the product
shall be deemed to have been approved.
19. (1) An insurer shall keep and maintain at its principal office — Records to be
kept by an
insurer
(a) the Memorandum and Articles of Association;
(b) a record containing the names and addresses of the owners of the insurance
business whether known as or called shareholders or otherwise;
(c) the minutes of any meeting of the owners and of the policy-making
executive, whether known as or called the Board of Directors or otherwise;
(d) a register of all policies in which shall be entered in respect of every policy
issued, the names and address of the policyholder, the date when the policy
was effected and a record or any transfer, assignment or nomination of
which the insurer has notice;
(e) a register of claims in which shall be entered every claim made together with
the date of claim, the name and address of the claimant and the date on
which the claim was settled, or in the case of a claim which is repudiated,
the date of repudiation and the grounds for the repudiation or in the case of
litigation, the particulars of the litigation and the decision of the court in the
matter;
(f) a register of investment showing those which are attributable to the
insurance funds and those which are not, and also any alteration in their
values;
(g) a register of its assets;
(h) a register of reinsurance ceded, showing separately those ceded in Nigeria
and those ceded outside Nigeria;
(i) a cash book;
(j) a current account book;
(k) a register of open policies in respect of marine insurance transactions; and
(l) management accounts.
(2) An insurer shall in respect of its life assurance business maintain and keep the following
additional record whether in physical or electronic form, that is —
(a) a register of assured under group policies;
(b) a register of loans on policies;
(c) a register of cash surrendered values;
(d) a register of lapsed and expired policies; and
(e) such other documents or records as the Commission may determine.
(3) Where an insurer fails to comply with any of the provisions of subsection (1) or (2),
the insurer and every principal officer of the insurer shall be liable, in the case of the
insurer to a penalty of not less than ₦500, 000 and in the case of every principal officer
to a penalty of not less than ₦250, 000, for each day of non-compliance.
20. (1) A reinsurer shall keep and maintain at its principal office the following — Records to be
kept by a
reinsurer
(a) the Memorandum and Articles of Association or other evidence of the
constitution of the reinsurer;
(b) records containing the names and addresses of the owners of the reinsurer,
whether known as or called shareholders;
(c) minutes of any meeting of the owners and of the policy-making executives.
whether known as or called the Board of Directors;
(d) a register of all treaties, in which shall be entered in respect of every treaty
issued, the name of the cedant, and the date when the treaty was effected;
(e) a register of all claims in which shall be entered every claim made together
with the date of claim, the name of the cedant or insured, their proportionate
share and the date the claim is settled;
(f) a register of events showing those which are attributable to the insurance
funds and those which are not and any alteration in value;
(g) a register of assets;
(h) a register of business or retrocession, showing separately those ceded within
and outside Nigeria;
(i) a register of new and existing clients;
(j) a cashbook; and
(k) domestic or management report prepared by external auditors.
(2) A life reinsurer shall keep the following additional records —
(a) a register of assured under group policies;
(b) a register of cancelled, lapsed and expired policies;
(c) a register of claims showing the names of the cedant and when the claim is
settled; and
(d) such other records as the Commission may determine.
(3) Where a reinsurer fails to comply with any of the provisions of subsection (1) or (2),
the reinsurer and every principal officer of the reinsurer shall be liable, in the case of
the reinsurer to a penalty of not less than ₦500,000 and in the case of every principal
officer to a penalty of not less than ₦250,000, for each day of non-compliance.
21. (1) An insurer shall establish and maintain, as may be applicable in respect of each class Provisions for
of insurance business — unexpired risks
and claims
(insurance
(a) provision for unearned premiums;
reserves)
(b) provision for unexpired risks;
(c) provision for outstanding claims; and
(d) such other provisions as may be prescribed by the Commission.
(2) The Commission shall prescribe the method for determination of the provisions referred
to in subsection (1).
(3) The amount of the provisions made under subsections (1) and (2) and other business
expenses incurred by an insurance company registered under this Act, shall be fully
deductible for tax purposes.
22. An insurer carrying on a life assurance business shall maintain a reserve fund which shall Reserves for life
be based on an annual valuation conducted by an actuary and the valuation approach shall assurance
business
consider the risk-based capital regulations.
23. A reinsurer shall establish a general reserve fund which shall be credited with an amount General reserve
— fund for
reinsurers
(a) not less than 50% of the insurer's gross profit for the year where the fund is
less than the authorised capital of the insurer; and
(b) not less than 25% of the reinsurer’s gross profit for the year where the fund
is equal to or exceeds the authorised capital of the reinsurer.
24. (1) An insurer carrying on insurance business in Nigeria shall maintain the capital Capital adequacy
adequacy ratio of 100%.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the Commission may prescribe a higher capital
adequacy ratio as may be determined by the Commission.
(3) The following assets shall not be included in the capital available computation or be
used for the purpose of determining the insurer's capital adequacy under this section
—
(a) goodwill and other intangible assets.
(b) deferred tax income or expenses and deferred tax assets;
(c) assets pledged to support credit facilities obtained by an insurer or other
specific purposes;
(d) assets over their concentration limits;
(e) all credit facilities granted by an insurer and secured by its own shares;
(f) prepayments;
(g) 100% of fixed assets and computer equipment;
(h) unsecured loans;
(i) receivables from insurers;
(j) merchandise inventory; and
(k) such other assets as may be prescribed by the Commission.
25. (1) With effect from the commencement of this Act, insurance regulation and supervision Risk-based
in Nigeria shall be carried out on a risk-based approach. approach
(2) The Commission shall issue risk-based capital requirements for each class of insurance
business.
(3) Every insurer shall, on or before 31 March of each year prepare and submit to the
Commission, a report of its risk-based capital levels as at 31 December of the preceding
year in a form and containing such information as may be prescribed by the
Commission.
26. (1) In determining the required capital, an insurer shall — Determination of
required capital
(a) take into consideration the capital for insurance risk, market risk, credit risk
and operational risk; and
(b) apply such capital charges on assets and liabilities as shall be determined by
the Commission.
(2) For the purpose of this section, "capital charge" means the proportion of capital required
to take care of the potential deterioration of the economic value of an asset and the
uncertainty in estimating liability due to the occurrence of an adverse event.
(3) An insurer shall maintain such risk-based capital as may be prescribed by the
Commission which shall be at all-time not less than the insurer's risk exposure.
(4) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the Commission may prescribe a higher or lower risk-
based capital with respect to any class of insurance business.
(5) The Commission may require an insurer to maintain an additional risk-based capital,
which the Commission considers appropriate in respect of specific risks.
(6) Failure to comply with the provisions of this section by an insurer may be a ground for
suspension of licence of the insurer.
27. (1) An insurer shall at all times, in respect of the insurance business transacted by it in Investment of
Nigeria, invest and hold invested in Nigeria, assets equivalent to not less than the policy holders’
funds
amount of insurance funds in the accounts of the insurer.
(2) Subject to guidelines issued by the Commission, insurance funds and assets shall be
invested in —
(a) bonds, bills and other securities issued or guaranteed by the Federal
Government and the Central Bank of Nigeria;
(b) bonds, debentures, redeemable preference shares and other debt instruments
issued by corporate entities listed on a Stock Exchange registered under the
Act No. 2, 2025
Investment and Securities Act, provided that appropriate credit ratings and
other criteria as determined by the Commission are met;
(c) ordinary shares of public limited companies listed on a securities exchange
registered under the Investments and Securities Act;
(d) bank deposits and bank securities;
(e) investment certificates of closed-end investment fund or hybrid investment
funds listed under the Investment and Securities Act, with good track
records of earnings;
(f) units sold by open-end investment funds or specialist open-end investment
funds registered under the Investment and Securities Act; Act No. 2, 2025
(g) real estate development investment; or
(h) specialist investment funds and such other financial instruments as the
Commission may approve.
(3) An insurer may invest insurance funds in units of any investment outside Nigeria within
the categories of investment set out in subsection (2).
(4) The Commission may approve the portfolio limits for investment of insurance fund or
asset outside the territory of the Federal Republic of Nigeria:
Provided that nothing in this Act shall prohibit or prevent an insurer from keeping
assets in currencies other than the Nigerian currency to support the liabilities in those
currencies and such assets in other currencies shall include assets in banks in any
African country or other countries whose ratings shall be as the Commission may
determine and shall be admissible assets for solvency calculations.
(5) Nothing contained in any law relating to investment by insurance companies of
insurance funds in real property, shall affect the provisions of this Act and for all intents
and purposes, where there is a conflict between the provisions of such laws and the
relevant provisions of this Act, the provisions of this Act shall take precedence.
28. A principal officer of an insurer who recklessly or negligently encumbers or disposes of Penalty in
investment or does any other thing which results in diminishing the security offered by any relation to
investments
investment made under this Act shall be liable to a penalty in such amount as may be
prescribed by the Commission.
29. (1) An insurer shall, not later than the 30 June of each year, submit in writing to the Statement of
Commission a — accounts
(a) duly audited financial statements of the insurer and its subsidiaries at the
end of the preceding year before presentation at its annual general meeting;
(b) revenue account applicable to each category or class of insurance business
for which the insurer is required to keep separate account of receipts and
payments; and
(c) statement of investments representing the insurance funds and shareholders'
fund.
(2) The returns and accounts required to be submitted under subsection (1) (a) and (b) are
to be in such form as may be prescribed by the Commission.
(3) An insurer who fails, neglects, delays or refuses to file the returns and accounts under
this section is liable to such penalty as may be prescribed by the Commission.
(4) Where the Commission is satisfied that the insurer has complied with the provisions of
subsections (1) and (2), it shall, within 14 days of submission of the returns, approve
such returns and where the Commission is dissatisfied, it shall inform the insurer in
writing within the period.
(5) Where the Commission fails to communicate its decision as prescribed in subsection
(4), the returns shall be deemed to have been approved by the Commission with effect
from the expiration of that period.
(6) An insurer shall in each year after receipt of the approval of the Commission, publish
its general annual statement of financial position together with its statement of profit
or loss and other comprehensive income in at least two widely circulated newspapers
in Nigeria.
(7) An insurer shall not hold its annual general meeting or distribute any dividends until
the Commission has approved the annual returns.
(8) An insurer who fails or neglects to comply with the provisions of subsections (6) and
(7) is liable to such penalty as may be prescribed by the Commission.
30. An insurer shall submit quarterly returns in the form prescribed to the Commission not Quarterly returns
later than 10 days after the last day of each quarter or such other interval as the
Commission may specify.
31. (1) An insurer transacting life assurance business shall, in addition to the provisions of Life assurance
section 30 of this Act, submit annually to the Commission an actuarial valuation report. returns
(2) Pursuant to the provisions of subsection (1), the Commission shall require an insurer
transacting life assurance business to —
(a) cause a person who for the time being is the statutory actuary of the insurer
to investigate the insurer's financial condition, including carrying out a
valuation of the insurer's liabilities, in respect of its insurance business as at
a specified date;
(b) cause the actuary to make and submit to the Commission a copy of the report
of the investigation;
(c) prepare and submit to the Commission a statement of its life assurance
business or part of it as at the date of the request; and
(d) show sufficient evidence that not more than a prescribed proportion of the
actuarial surplus declared is appropriate.
(3) An insurer transacting life assurance business shall, at the expiration of each year,
submit to the Commission such statements and documents as may be prescribed by the
Commission.
(4) The Commission shall, where it appears to it that the statement furnished by an insurer
under subsections (1) and (2) is inaccurate or is not prepared in the prescribed form or
is defective in any material particular —
(a) require from the insurer such further information as it may consider
necessary;
(b) call on the insurer to submit, for its examination, any book of account,
register or any other document;
(c) require the insurer to confirm, on oath or by a sworn declaration, the
authenticity of any statement submitted by the insurer; or
(d) refuse to approve the insurer's annual statement until the inaccuracies have
been rectified.
(5) An insurer who fails, neglects or refuses to file the required returns or accounts under
this section is liable to a penalty as may be prescribed by the Commission.
32. (1) An insurer transacting non-life insurance business shall, in addition to the provisions Non-life
of section 29 of this Act, submit annually to the Commission, an actuarial valuation insurance returns
report.
(2) Pursuant to the provisions of subsection (1), the Commission shall require an insurer
transacting non-life insurance business to —
(a) cause a person who for the time being is the statutory actuary of the insurer
to investigate an insurer's financial condition, including the carrying out of
valuation of the insurer's liabilities, in respect of the insurer's business as at
a specified date;
(b) cause the actuary to make and submit to the Commission a copy of the report
of the investigation;
(c) prepare and submit to the Commission a statement of its non-life insurance
business or part of it as at the date of the request; and
(d) show sufficient evidence that not more than a prescribed proportion of the
actuarial surplus declared is appropriated for shareholders.
(3) An insurer transacting non-life insurance business shall, at the expiration of each year,
submit to the Commission such statements and documents as may be prescribed by the
Commission.
(4) The Commission shall, where it appears to it that the statement furnished by an insurer
under subsections (1) and (2) is inaccurate or is not prepared in the prescribed form or
is defective in any material particular —
(a) require from the insurer such further information as it may consider
necessary;
(b) call on the insurer to submit, for its examination, any book of account,
register or any other document;
(c) require the insurer to confirm, on oath or by a sworn declaration, the
authenticity of any statement submitted by the insurer; or
(d) refuse to approve the insurer's annual statement unless the inaccuracies have
been rectified.
(5) An insurer who fails, neglects or refuses to file the required returns or accounts under
this section is liable to a penalty as may be prescribed by the Commission.
33. (1) The financial statements and revenue account of an insurer in respect of the insurance Audits
business transacted by the insurer, shall be audited annually by an external auditor
approved by the Commission.
(2) At the conclusion of the audit, the auditor shall issue a report signed by him in
accordance with relevant auditing standards and other requirements as may be
prescribed by the Commission.
34. (1) Where the external auditor's appointment is terminated for any reason, the auditor shall Termination of
submit to the Commission a statement of what the auditor believes to be the reasons auditor's
appointment by
for that termination.
insurer
(2) The furnishing, in good faith, by an auditor of a report or information as required under
this section shall not be deemed to constitute a contravention of a provision of a law or
a breach of a provision of a code of professional conduct to which the auditor is subject.
(3) The failure, in good faith, by an auditor to furnish a report or information in terms of
this section shall not confer upon any person a right of action against the auditor which,
but for that failure that person may not have had.
35. (1) An insurer shall not declare or pay dividend on its shares until – Restriction on
dividend
(a) all its preliminary expenses, organisational expenses, commission,
brokerage, amount of loses incurred and other capitalised expenses not
represented by tangible assets have been completely written off;
(b) adequate provisions have been made to the satisfaction of the Commission
for actual and contingent losses on risk assets and liabilities; and
(c) it has complied with any capital or solvency requirement as specified by the
Commission under this Act.
(2) Any director, manager or officer who fails to comply with the requirement of this
section commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not more than 5%
of the dividend paid or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or both.
36. Notwithstanding the provisions in any other law, any amount payable as retirement life Exemption of
annuity including interests, dividends, profits and investments shall not be subject to tax retirement life
annuity from
and levies in any form.
taxation
PART VI — INSURANCE INTERMEDIARIES
37. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, no person shall transact business in Insurance agents
Nigeria as an insurance agent unless he is licensed under the provisions of this Act.
(2) A person shall not be licensed as an insurance agent unless —
(a) he possesses a minimum of certificate of proficiency issued by the Chartered
Insurance Institute of Nigeria, referred to in this Act as "the Institute";
(b) in the case of a corporate entity, at least one of the principal officers
possesses a certificate of proficiency issued by the Institute;
(c) he possesses experience or length of service of at least 10 years in an
underwriting firm;
(d) prior to the date of his appointment, he has not been convicted by a court or
tribunal for an offence involving dishonesty or fraud; and
(e) he has not, within the preceding five years to the date of application become
bankrupt or applied to take the benefit of the law for the relief of
bankruptcy.
(3) Where the Commission is satisfied that the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this section and such other requirements as may be prescribed by the Commission in
its Service Charter, it shall license the applicant as an insurance agent.
(4) Where the Commission is not satisfied as to any of the matters referred to in this section
and such other requirements as may be prescribed in the Service Charter, the
Commission shall inform the applicant in writing of its decision rejecting the
application within a period as may be specified in the Service Charter counted from
the date of receipt of the application or submission of any other relevant document or
evidence as may be required by the Commission.
(5) A person aggrieved by the decision of the Commission rejecting his application may
appeal in writing against such a decision to the Board within 30 days of receiving notice
of refusal.
(6) The Board shall within 45 days of receiving the appeal give its decision on whether to
allow or reject the appeal and may impose such conditions as it deems fit where it
allows the appeal.
(7) A licence issued to an agent under this section entitles the holder to transact business
as an insurance agent for the insurers named in the licence.
(8) A licence issued under this section is renewable after three years or at such times and
upon payment of such fees as may be prescribed by the Commission.
(9) Any insurer who deals with an insurance agent not licensed under this Act is liable to
a penalty of a sum equal to five times the amount of premium collected in respect of
the business transacted.
(10) A person who transacts business as an insurance agent without having been licensed
as required under this Part, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding ₦500,000 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or both.
(11) In addition to subsection (10), the court may make an order requiring the person to
refund any sum collected by him while transacting the business, to the rightful owners
or other entitled persons.
38. (1) An insurer who carries on insurance business through insurance agents shall maintain Duties of
a register showing the name and address of every insurance agent and the date on which insurance agents
in relation to
the services were contracted and, where applicable, terminated.
remittance of
premiums
(2) An insurance agent shall not collect premium on behalf of an insurer, and any premium
payment shall be made directly to the insurer.
(3) An insurance agent who fails to pay any premium collected by him to the insurer in
accordance with subsection (2) —
(a) commits an offence and is liable to a penalty of not more than 5% of the
premium involved and additional ₦100,000 for each day the offence
continues; and
(b) shall not be eligible for further engagement as an insurance agent or
employee by any insurance operator for a period of 12 months.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3), the Commission may, where
appropriate, impose such penalties on the insurance agent as may be prescribed by the
Commission.
39. (1) No person shall transact business in Nigeria as an insurance broker unless he is licensed Licensing of
under the provisions of this Act. insurance
brokers
(2) A licence issued under this Act shall be renewed every five years or for such longer
duration as the Commission may determine.
(3) Application for a licence as an insurance broker shall be made to the Commission in
the prescribed form and accompanied by the fee and such other documents as may be
prescribed by the Commission.
(4) The Commission may issue a licence where the —
(a) applicant is a firm registered under Part E of the Companies and Allied
Matters Act, or a partnership registered under Part C or D of Companies and
Act No. 3 of
Allied Matters Act, or a limited liability company, as the case may be; 2020
(b) partner or chief executive officer of the applicant company is a qualified
person with cognate experience, a member of the Institute and a member of
the professional body of registered insurance brokers established by an Act
of the National Assembly; and
(c) partner or the chief executive officer of the applicant company possesses the
current membership clearance certificate of the professional body of
registered insurance brokers established by an Act of the National Assembly.
(5) Where the Commission is not satisfied as to any of the matters referred to in subsection
(4), the Commission shall inform the applicant in writing of its decision rejecting the
application within a period as may be specified in the Service Charter counted from
the date of receipt of the application or submission of any other relevant document or
evidence as may be required by the Commission.
(6) A person aggrieved by the decision of the Commission rejecting his application may
appeal in writing against such a decision to the Board within 30 days of receiving notice
of refusal.
(7) The Board shall within 60 days of receiving the appeal give its decision on whether to
allow or reject the appeal and may impose such conditions as it deems fit where it
allows the appeal.
(8) A person who knowingly transacts business as an insurance broker without having been
licensed for that purpose under this Act commits an offence and is liable on conviction,
in the case of —
(a) a company, firm or other combination of persons, each principal officer of
the company, firm or other combination of persons to a penalty of not less
than ₦10,000,000; and
(b) an individual, to a fine not exceeding ₦5,000,000 or imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months:
Provided that the Commission shall impose minimum penalties relative to the
amount gained or to be gained.
(9) In addition to the provisions of subsection (8), the Commission shall make an order
requiring the refund of the money collected by the company, firm or individual to the
rightful owners or other persons entitled to the money collected.
(10) An insurer who knowingly or recklessly transacts insurance business with any person
mentioned in subsection (8) or pays commission to a broker whose licence has expired
and had not submitted its application for renewal with the Commission shall be liable
to a penalty of a sum equal to the commission due on the business transacted, and the
Commission shall, by regulations, define “knowingly” and “recklessly” for the
purpose of this section.
(11) An insurance broker shall not transact any insurance business with any underwriter
without providing fundamental risk assessment information in accordance with the
regulations issued by the Commission.
(12) An insurance broker who knowingly or recklessly transacts insurance business
without providing the risk assessment information provided in subsection (11) shall
not be entitled to earn, deduct or be paid the commission due on the business
transaction and the business transacted shall be deemed and treated as a direct business
to the relevant insurance company.
40. (1) An insurance broker shall not undertake reinsurance broking without being licensed by Reinsurance
the Commission. broking
(2) The Commission may grant license to an insurance broker for purposes of subsection
(1), where it is satisfied that —
(a) the insurance broker has the required expertise to conduct the class of
reinsurance business; and
(b) at least one partner or director of the reinsurance broking firm or company
has a minimum of seven years working experience in the middle
management cadre of a reinsurance broking firm or reinsurance department
of an insurance company, and where it is an insurance broking company
combining reinsurance broking to its practice, a minimum of three years'
experience in a reinsurance broking firm or reinsurance department of an
insurance company, reinsurance company or reinsurance department of an
insurance broking company.
(3) Where the Commission is not satisfied as to any of the matters referred to in subsection
(2) or any other matter, the Commission shall inform the applicant in writing of its
decision rejecting the application within a period of 30 working days from the date of
receipt of the application or submission of any other relevant document or evidence as
may be required by the Commission.
(4) A person aggrieved by the decision of the Commission rejecting his application may
appeal in writing against such a decision to the Board within 30 days of receiving notice
of refusal.
(5) The Board shall within 60 working days of receiving the appeal give its decision on
whether to allow or reject the appeal and may impose such conditions as it deems fit
where it allows the appeal.
(6) A person who transacts business as a reinsurance broker without having been licensed
for that purpose under this Act commits an offence and is liable on conviction in the
case of —
(a) a company, firm or other combination of persons, each principal officer of
the company, firm or other combination of persons to a penalty not
exceeding ₦1,000,000; and
(b) an individual, to a fine of at least ₦500,000 or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 12 months.
(7) In addition to the provisions of subsection (6), the Commission shall make an order
requiring the refund of the money collected by the company, firm or individual to the
rightful owners or other persons entitled to the money collected.
41. (1) All insurance and reinsurance brokers shall renew their licenses within six months to Renewal of
the expiry or such longer date as may be prescribed by the Commission in the licence. licence of an
insurance or
reinsurance
(2) For the purpose of renewal, all documents including evidence of being a current
broker
member of the professional body of registered insurance brokers established by an Act
of the National Assembly shall be submitted within such time as may be prescribed by
the Commission.
(3) The Commission shall publish the list of all brokers with valid licences on its website
not later than 30 days after the date specified in subsection (1).
(4) A letter of authorisation to continue to operate for a period of not more than six months
beginning from the date of expiry of licence shall be issued to an insurance broker who
has submitted all relevant documents pending the processing and issuance of a new
licence by the Commission.
(5) Where the Commission informs an applicant of rejection of the application for renewal
of licence, the provisions of section 39 (5), (6) and (7) of this Act shall apply in relation
to insurance and reinsurance brokers.
42. (1) The Commission may cancel the licence of an insurance broker in the following Cancellation of
circumstances, where a broker – licence of an
insurance or
reinsurance
(a) has knowingly or recklessly contravened the provisions of this Act or
broker
regulations issued under this Act;
(b) is carrying on business as a loss adjuster;
(c) has, for the purpose of obtaining a licence or paying a levy to the
Commission, knowingly or recklessly made a statement which is false in
any material particular;
(d) has his name struck off the list of the membership of the professional body
of registered insurance brokers established by an Act of the National
Assembly;
(e) has knowingly or recklessly made false declaration of its income or false
declaration of remittance of premiums collected;
(f) has been found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction of dishonesty or
fraud by whatever name called, including misappropriation of clients'
money; or
(g) has knowingly or recklessly acted contrary to the code of conduct of the
profession.
(2) Prior to invoking cancellation of a broker's licence, the Commission shall apply a
graduated sanction procedure which shall include warnings, fines, and suspension of
licence.
(3) A formal notice of intention to cancel licence by the Commission shall be given to the
broker by the Commission.
(4) The Commission shall in the notice of its intention to cancel the licence give the broker
a specified period of time, as it may deem necessary, within which to remedy any of
the defects or breaches identified in subsection (1), where the defects or breaches are
capable of being remedied.
(5) Where the defect or breach is not capable of being remedied or where it is not remedied
within the time specified by the Commission in the notice given, the Commission shall
proceed to cancel the licence of the broker.
(6) Where the licence of a broker is cancelled —
(a) the broker shall immediately discontinue to accept any new business; and
(b) in all cases, the Commission may act as a receiver from the date of
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Act or may appoint
any person to act on its behalf.
(7) A broker whose licence has been cancelled by the Commission may, within 30 days
after the notice of the Commission's cancellation of its license appeal to the Board in
writing setting out the grounds of appeal and the exercise of the right to appeal by a
broker whose license is cancelled shall act as a stay of the implementation of the
decision of the Commission.
(8) The Board shall within 90 days of receiving the appeal give its decision on whether to
allow or reject the appeal, and where the appeal is allowed, the Board may impose such
conditions as it deems fit.
(9) Where an appeal is disallowed by the Board, the Commission shall cause a notice to be
published as it may determine.
43. An insurance and reinsurance broking firm shall — Requirement as
to indemnity
cover
(a) maintain a professional indemnity cover of not less than ₦100,000,000 or
50% of its annual brokerage income for the preceding year, whichever is
greater;
(b) not directly or indirectly hold financial interest in excess of 10% in —
(i) an insurance company, or
(ii) a loss adjusting company in Nigeria;
(c) have as a member of its senior management staff at least one person who
has professional qualification in insurance or at least seven years experience
at senior management level with an insurer or insurance broking firm; and
(d) satisfy such other conditions as the Commission may prescribe in relation
to indemnity cover, staff, financial interest and keeping of register.
44. (1) An insurance or reinsurance broker shall keep — Records of
transactions and
(a) records of all insurance business handled by him and accounting records in other documents
to be kept by
such form and for such period as may be prescribed by the Commission;
insurance
and
brokers
(b) evidence of current membership of the Nigerian Council of Registered
Insurance Brokers.
(2) An insurance or reinsurance broker shall submit audited financial statements and
revenue account to the Commission not later than 30 June in each year or later date as
the Commission may prescribe.
(3) An insurance or reinsurance broking firm that contravenes the provisions of this section
is liable to a penalty of such sum as may be prescribed by the Commission.
45. (1) Where an insurance broker fails to comply with the provisions of this Act, the Suspension of
Commission may, without prejudice to any further sanction, suspend his licence for a licence
period not exceeding six months.
(2) An insurer who transacts business with an insurance broker whose licence has been
suspended is liable to a penalty of ₦250,000 or the amount of premium involved,
whichever is higher.
(3) Where an insurer continues to violate the provisions of subsection (2), the Commission
may give notice of its intention to cancel the licence of the insurer under section 8 of
this Act
46. (1) An external auditor who audits the accounts of an insurance broker shall, at the Audit of
conclusion of each audit issue a — insurance broker
(a) certificate that all premiums collected by the insurance broker have been
paid to the insurer with whom he transacted business during the year; and
(b) report signed by him in accordance with relevant auditing standards and
other requirements as may be prescribed by the Commission.
(2) A false declaration of income or remittance of premiums collected knowingly or
recklessly made by an insurance or reinsurance broker shall constitute a ground for the
cancellation of licence.
47. (1) An insurance broker shall establish and maintain, at all times, a clients' account into Insurance broker
which all money, premiums, claims and recoveries from and on behalf of clients, to establish
clients' account
insurers and reinsurers shall be paid.
(2) An insurance broker who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) shall be liable to
a penalty of not less than the sum of ₦1,000,000.
48. (1) A person shall not transact business as a loss adjuster in Nigeria unless the — Licencing of loss
adjusters
(a) person is licenced for that purpose under this Act; and
(b) chief executive or executive director is a registered member of a
professional body of loss adjusters recognised by law.
(2) An application for licensing as a loss adjuster shall be made to the Commission in the
form and be accompanied by such fee and other documents as may be prescribed by
the Commission.
(3) The Commission shall license the applicant as a loss adjuster, where —
(a) the applicant has the prescribed qualifications;
(b) the applicant is either a partnership or a limited liability company duly
registered under the Companies and Allied Matters Act, with such Act No. 3, 2020
minimum fully paid up share capital, as may be prescribed by the
Commission;
(c) the chief executive or the executive director of the applicant company is a
member of the Institute and a registered member of professional body of
loss adjusters recognised by law;
(d) no partner or director of the applicant company is an employee or director
of any other insurance operator; and
(e) the applicant has met such requirements as may be prescribed by the
Commission.
(4) A person who transacts business as a loss adjuster without having been licensed for that
purpose under this Act commits an offence and is liable on conviction, in the case of
—
(a) a company, firm or other combination of persons, each principal officer of
the company, firm or other combination of persons to a penalty of at least
₦500,000; and
(b) an individual, to a penalty of at least ₦250,000 or imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 12 months.
(5) An insurer who, knowingly or recklessly, engages the services of a person not licensed
as a loss adjuster under this Act is liable to a penalty of a sum equal to 10 times the
fees charged for the services rendered.
49. (1) All loss adjusters shall renew their licenses every five years or for such longer duration Renewal of
as may be prescribed by the Commission. licence of loss
adjusters
(2) For the purposes of renewal, all documents shall be submitted to the Commission within
such time as may be prescribed by the Commission.
(3) The Commission shall publish annually the list of all licenced loss adjusters on its
website.
50. (1) The Commission shall give notice in writing of its intention to cancel the licence of a Cancellation of
loss adjuster where a licensed loss adjuster has — licence of a loss
adjuster
(a) knowingly or recklessly contravened the provisions of this Act;
(b) for the purpose of licensing or payment of a levy to the Commission, made
a statement which is false in any material particular;
(c) been found guilty, by a court of competent jurisdiction of dishonesty or fraud
including misappropriation of client's money; or
(d) displayed any act of professional misconduct.
(2) The Commission shall in the notice of its intention to cancel the licence of the loss
adjuster give the loss adjuster a specified period of time, as it may deem necessary,
within which to remedy any of the defects or breaches identified in subsection (1)
where the defects or breaches are capable of being remedied.
(3) Where the defect or breach is not capable of being remedied or where it is not remedied
within the time specified by the Commission in the notice given, the Commission shall
proceed immediately to cancel the licence of the loss adjuster.
(4) The Commission shall cancel the license of a loss adjuster within 30 days of receipt of
the notice from the Institute of Loss Adjusters of Nigeria that the name of the loss
adjuster is struck off from the list of loss adjusters.
(5) Where the licence of a loss adjuster is cancelled, the —
(a) loss adjuster shall immediately discontinue to accept any new business; and
(b) Commission may act as a receiver from the date of cancellation in
accordance with the provisions of this Act or may appoint any person to act
on its behalf.
(6) A loss adjuster whose licence has been cancelled by the Commission may within 30
days after the cancellation appeal to the Board in writing setting out the grounds of
appeal, and the exercise of the right to appeal by an aggrieved loss adjuster shall act as
a stay of the implementation of the decision of the Commission.
(7) The Board shall within 90 days of receiving the appeal give its decision on whether to
allow or reject the appeal and where the appeal is allowed, the Board may impose such
conditions as it deems fit.
(8) Where an appeal is disallowed by the Board, the Commission shall cause a notice to be
published in such a manner as it may determine.
51. A loss adjuster shall keep proper records of its business in such forms as may be prescribed Records to be
which shall be subject to inspection by the Commission or any person authorised by the kept by loss
adjuster
Commission.
52. The Commission shall permit a recognised foreign loss adjuster to attend to claims in Attendance to
Nigeria provided that the foreign loss adjuster carries out the assignment in collaboration claims by foreign
loss adjusters
with at least one firm of loss adjusters licensed under this Act.
PART VII — ACTUARY
53. (1) Actuary is a person who possesses the required professional actuarial qualification An Actuary
from a recognised actuarial professional body.
(2) Statutory Actuary is an Actuary, as defined in subsection (1) and recognised by the
Commission as qualified to practice in Nigeria, who has been contracted to carry out
annual actuarial valuation report for the insurer or reinsurer.
(3) The Commission shall be advised of the appointment and termination of the Statutory
Actuary.
(4) The Statutory Actuary shall be independent of the insurer or reinsurer on which the
valuation is being carried out.
54. (1) An insurer shall appoint an Actuary for its insurance business. Powers of the
Commission to
appoint actuary
(2) Where an insurer fails to appoint an Actuary, the Commission may appoint a qualified
person to act as the Actuary for the business of the insurer under this Act.
(3) An Actuary appointed under subsection (2) is considered, for the purposes of this Act,
to have been appointed by the insurer.
(4) Where the Commission is satisfied that the Actuary of an insurer failed to fulfil his
obligations under this Act, it may revoke its approval of the appointment of the Actuary
by a written notice to the insurer and the insurer shall appoint a new Actuary.
(5) A notice revoking the appointment of an Actuary under subsection (4) shall be sent to
the Actuary and the insurer.
(6) The Commission shall issue regulations to guide operations of actuaries.
55. (1) The Actuary of an insurer — Powers of
Actuary
(a) is entitled to have access to any information or document in the possession
or under the control of the insurer required for the proper performance of
his functions and discharge of his duties under this Act; and
(b) may require any director or employee of the insurer to answer questions or
produce documents for the purpose of enabling the Actuary to properly
perform his functions and discharge of his duties under this Act.
(2) A director or employee of an insurer shall not refuse or fail, without excuse, to comply
with the requirement of subsection (1) (b).
(3) Where, without reasonable ground —
(a) an insurer fails or refuses to provide its Actuary access to the documents
and information specified in this section, or
(b) a director or employee of the insurer contravenes the provisions of
subsection (1) (b),
the Actuary shall report the matter to the Commission, and the insurer and its
officers shall be liable to penalty as may be prescribed by the Commission.
56. (1) The Actuary of an insurer shall report immediately to the Commission where — Obligations of
Actuary
(a) reasonable grounds exist for believing that the insurer or a director of the
insurer may have contravened the provisions of this Act or any other
relevant enactment; and
(b) the contravention is such as may adversely affect the interest of policy
holders of the insurer.
(2) Where in the course of discharging his duties under this Act, the Actuary comes across
any matter in relation to the business of the insurer which, in the opinion of the Actuary,
requires action to be taken by the insurer, or its directors, to avoid —
(a) any contravention of the provisions of this Act, or
(b) the interest of policy holders of the insurer, being adversely affected,
the Actuary shall immediately report such matter to the insurer.
(3) Where the Actuary of an insurer makes a report to the insurer under subsection (2) and
the insurer does not, within such time as the Actuary may specify take the action
required, the Actuary shall report the matter to the Commission.
(4) Where the appointment of an Actuary is terminated by an insurer, the Actuary shall —
(a) immediately inform the Commission of the termination and disclose to the
Commission the circumstance that gave rise to the termination; and
(b) report any information which, but for the termination, would have been
reported to the Commission.
(5) Where, in good faith, an Actuary provides a report or information to the Commission
under the provisions of subsections (1), (3), or (4), the Actuary shall not be in
contravention of any enactment, rule, law or professional code of conduct to which the
Actuary is subject and no civil, criminal or disciplinary proceedings shall lie against
the Actuary in respect of the report or information provided to the Commission.
(6) The failure, in good faith, of an Actuary to provide a report or information to the
Commission under subsections (1), (3), or (4), does not confer upon any other person
a right of action against the Actuary which, but for the failure, the person would not
have had.
(7) An Actuary who contravenes the provisions of subsections (1), (3) or (4), shall be liable
to a fine of ₦1,000,000 or imprisonment for a term not more than six months.
57. (1) An insurer shall, at such period as may be prescribed by the Commission, cause an Annual
investigation to be carried out by its Actuary into its financial condition in respect of investigations
its insurance business.
(2) An investigation under subsection (1) shall comply with such requirements as may be
prescribed by the Commission.
(3) The Actuary shall produce a report of the investigation carried out under subsection (1)
as may be prescribed by the Commission.
58. (1) An insurer shall, at least once every year cause an actuarial valuation to be carried out Valuation by
by its Statutory Actuary into the liabilities in respect of its insurance business. statutory Actuary
(2) An investigation under subsection (1) shall comply with such requirements as may be
prescribed by the Commission.
(3) The Statutory Actuary shall produce a report of the investigation carried out under
subsection (1) as may be prescribed by the Commission.
59. (1) The Commission may, at any time, by notice, direct an insurer to cause an Actuary to Actuarial
investigate the aspects of its financial condition that the Commission may specify in investigation and
report
the notice and to provide the Commission with the report prepared by the Actuary.
(2) A report prepared under subsection (1) shall be at the cost of the insurer.
(3) The Commission may direct that actuarial investigation be carried out by the Actuary
appointed by the insurer, or by any other Actuary the Commission may specify.
PART VIII — PREMIUMS AND COMMISSIONS
60. (1) The receipt of an insurance premium shall be a condition precedent to a valid contract Payment of
of insurance and there shall be no cover in respect of an insurance risk, unless the insurance
premium
premium is paid in advance.
(2) An insurance premium collected by a broker in respect of an insurance business
transacted through the broker shall be deemed to be premium paid to the insurer
involved in the transaction.
(3) Where an insurer grants cover, howsoever described, in contravention of the provisions
of subsection (1) or any other provision of this Act or regulations made by the
Commission under this Act, the insurer shall be liable to such penalty not more than
two times the premium collected for the policy, or as may be prescribed by the
Commission.
(4) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply where an insurer grants cover,
howsoever described, in respect of policies issued for the benefit of third parties under
any insurance made compulsory by law.
(5) The provisions of this section are without prejudice to reinsurance contracts which shall
be governed by the terms of such contracts.
61. (1) Where an insurance business is transacted through a broker, the broker shall, not later Payment of
than 20 working days or 30 calendar days after the receipt of the premium or effective premium through
a broker
date of cover, or due date of cover, whichever is later, pay to the insurer.
(2) A broker who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) is liable to —
(a) pay the net premium due to the insurer with interest at 2% above the Central
Bank of Nigeria Minimum Rediscount Rate from the date of the breach; and
(b) a penalty in the sum of ₦500,000 or two times the value of the commission
earned, whichever is higher.
(3) Where a broker collects premium on behalf of the insurer, it shall satisfy such
requirements as may be prescribed by the Commission.
(4) Non-remittance of premium may constitute a ground for restriction or cancellation of
the licence.
62. (1) An insurer shall not pay, by way of commission to an insurance broker or any other Payment of
intermediary, except in accordance with regulations issued by the Commission, an insurance
commission
amount exceeding —
(a) 9 % of the premium in respect of group life assurance;
(b) 12.5% of the premium in respect of motor insurance business;
(c) 15% of the premium in respect of workmen's compensation;
(d) 20% of the premium in respect of any other class of non-life insurance
business; or
(e) 3 % of single premium annuity.
(2) No alteration in the rates of a commission mentioned in subsection (1) shall be made
except with the prior approval of the Commission.
(3) The rate of commission payable to an insurance agent shall not exceed the rate of
commission payable to insurance brokers or as may be determined by the Commission.
(4) A person who pays or receives any commission other than in compliance with the
provisions of this section, is liable to a penalty of not more than five times the amount
of excess commission paid or received.
63. (1) Subject to any regulations as may be issued by the Commission in this regard, an Administration
insurer shall be at liberty to grant incentives in the form of ‘no claims’ discount, risk of certain
discounts and
improvement discount, profit share and other similar forms of incentives in respect of
rebates
any class of insurance, and the Commission shall issue regulations for the application
and administration of such incentives.
(2) An insurer who grants incentives in breach of any regulations issued by the
Commission in that regard shall be liable to a penalty as may be determined by the
Commission in the relevant regulations.
(3) Premium loading in whatever form is prohibited.
PART IX — INSURANCE CONTRACTS: DISCLOSURE, CONDITIONS AND
WARRANTIES
64. (1) Where an insurer requires an insured to complete a proposal form or any other Proposal form
application form for insurance, the form shall be drawn up in a manner as to elicit
such information as the insurer considers material in accepting the application for
insurance of the risk and any information not specifically requested shall be deemed
not to be material.
(2) The proposal form or any other application form for insurance shall be printed in easily
readable letters with an inscription in a conspicuous place on the front page, that "the
insurance agent who assists an applicant to complete an application or proposal form
for insurance shall be deemed to have done so as the agent of the applicant".
(3) A disclosure or representation made by the insured to the insurance agent shall be
deemed to be a disclosure or representation to the insurer provided the agent is acting
within his authority.
(4) The provision of the Bank Verification Number (BVN) and National Identification
Number (NIN) shall form part of the material information required for submission to
the insurer in the case of an individual insured and corresponding Corporate Affairs
Commission documents in the case of a corporate entity.
65. (1) In a contract of insurance, a breach of a term of the contract, whether called a warranty Breach of
or a condition, shall not give rise to any right by, or afford a defence to the insurer material and
relevant terms
unless the term is material and relevant to the risk or loss insured against.
(2) Where there is a breach of a term of a contract of insurance, the insurer shall not be
entitled to repudiate the whole or any part of the contract or a claim brought on the
grounds of the breach unless —
(a) the breach amounts to a fraud; or
(b) it is a breach of a fundamental term of the contract.
(3) Where there is a breach of a material term of a contract of insurance and the insured
makes a claim against the insurer and the insurer is not entitled to repudiate the whole
or any part of the contract, the insurer shall be liable to indemnify the insured only to
the extent of the loss which the insured may have suffered if there was no breach of the
term.
(4) Nothing in this section shall prevent the insurer from repudiating a contract of insurance
on the ground of a breach of a material term before the occurrence of the risk or loss
insured against.
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section an insurer may waive the breach of a
term of the contract.
(6) For the purpose of subsection (2), "fundamental term" means a warranty, condition or
other term of an insurance contract which a prudent insurer will regard as material and
relevant in accepting to underwrite a risk and in fixing the amount of premium.
66. (1) A policy of insurance made by a person on the life of any other person, on property or Insurable interest
on any other event whatsoever shall be void where the person, for whose benefit, or on
whose account the policy of insurance is made, has no insurable interest in the life,
property or subject matter insured or where it is made by way of gaming or wagering.
(2) A person shall be deemed to have an insurable interest in the life of any other person
or any property or in any other event where he stands in any legal relationship to that
person, property or other event in consequence of which he may benefit by the safety
of that person, property or event or be prejudiced by the death, loss, injury or
destruction of that person or property or the loss from the occurrence of the event.
(3) In this section, "legal relationship" includes —
(a) the relationship which exists between persons under customary law or
Islamic law whereby one person assumes responsibility for the maintenance
and care of the other; and
(b) equitable interests.
67. (1) A policy of insurance shall not be made on the life of a person, property or event Policy document
without inserting in the policy, the name of the insured, the property or the event as to specify
insured or event
applicable and those for whose benefit or on whose account the policy is made.
(2) The provision of subsection (1) shall not invalidate a policy for the benefit of unnamed
persons, falling within a specified class or description, if the class or description is
stated in the policy with sufficient particularity to make it possible to establish the
identity of all persons who at any given time are entitled to benefit under the policy.
68. (1) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act and any other Act, every employer Special
shall maintain a group life assurance policy in favour of each employee for a minimum requirements
relating to group
of three times the annual total emolument of the employee and premium shall be paid
life assurance
not later than the date of commencement of the cover.
(2) Where an employee dies, his entitlements under group life assurance policy maintained
under subsection (1) shall be paid by an underwriter to the named beneficiary in
accordance with section 67 of this Act.
(3) No group life assurance policy shall be issued without clearly stating the employer as
trustee and employees as the life assured, and containing the details specified in
subsection (4).
(4) The details required to be specified under subsection (3) include —
(a) names and addresses of the assured;
(b) the exact salary grade level;
(c) total death benefit payable; and
(d) names and addresses of beneficiaries, verifiable by any acceptable means of
identification.
(5) Every insurer providing a group life cover under this section shall generate a Personal
Identification Number (PIN) for each of the scheme members under the policy and
deliver same to each of the scheme member not later than two weeks after the issuance
of the policy.
(6) From the commencement of this Act, all employees' group life assurance policy
required to be effected under this Act shall be undertaken by all Ministries,
Departments and Agencies of the Government.
(7) An insurer who fails to comply with the requirements of this section shall be liable to
a penalty of at least ₦10,000,000 or as the Commission may determine.
(8) An employer who fails to comply with this section shall be liable to a penalty of the
annual total emolument of each employee without a group life assurance policy or as
the Commission may determine.
(9) In the event of the death of an employee without a group life cover, the employer shall
be liable to pay three times the total emolument of such employee.
(10) The Commission shall make regulations for the effective implementation of this
section.
69. Where an employee is missing and is not found within a period of one year, from the date Missing
he was declared missing, and a board of inquiry set up by the Commission makes a employee
determination that, having regards to available information and all relevant circumstances,
it is reasonable to presume that the employee is dead, the provisions of section 68(2) of
this Act shall apply.
70. A person with an insurable interest in the life, property or event insured, shall not be Limitation on
entitled to receive from the insurer an amount greater than that value of the interest of the amount
receivable
insured in such life, property or other event and the balance payment shall be paid into the
estate of the insured or policy holder.
71. A person who — Right of assignee
to sue
(a) is entitled by assignment or other derivative title to a policy of insurance, and
(b) has, at the time when action is brought on the policy, the right in equity to
receive and to give an effectual discharge to the insurer liable under such
policy for money thereby assured or secured,
shall be entitled to sue in the name of the person to recover the money, but the
assignee shall not have a better title than the insured.
72. (1) An assignment of a policy of life assurance shall not confer on the assignee or his Notice of
personal representatives any right to sue for the amount of the policy or the insured assignment
money, unless a written notice of the date and purport of the assignment is given to the
assurer liable under the policy at his principal address of business.
(2) The date on which the notice is received shall regulate the priority of all claims under
the assignment.
(3) An assignment of a policy of life assurance may be made by endorsement on the policy
or by a separate instrument in such form as may be prescribed by the Commission.
73. (1) An insurer to whom a notice of assignment is given in respect of any policy for which Acknowledgeme
the insurer is liable, shall acknowledge such notice and that acknowledgement, shall nt of notice of
assignment
be a conclusive evidence against the insurer of his having received the notice.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the onus of proving the delivery of a
notice of assignment shall be on the assignee if the insurer fails to acknowledge the
receipt of the notice.
74. The provisions of this Part shall not apply to contracts of marine insurance. Provisions
inapplicable to
marine insurance
75. (1) A person shall not construct or cause to be constructed any building of more than one Insurance of
floor without insuring his liability in respect of the construction risks that may be building under
construction
caused by his negligence or the negligence of his servants, agents, consultants or public
authority which may result in bodily injury or loss of life to any person or workman
working on the site or to any member of the public.
(2) The owner or contractor shall procure insurance as required under the provision of
subsection (1) immediately upon approval of building plan before commencing
construction.
(3) A person who contravenes the provision of subsection (1) commits an offence and is
liable on conviction to a fine of ₦5,000,000 or imprisonment to a maximum term of 12
months or both.
76. (1) Every public building shall be insured against the hazards of collapse, fire, earthquake, Insurance of
storm, flood and such other hazards as the Commission may determine. public buildings
(2) The insurance policy to be provided for under subsection (1) shall cover the legal
liabilities of the owner and occupier of premises for loss or damage to property or
bodily injury or death suffered by any user of the premises and third parties.
(3) Every direct insurer on policies issued under subsection (1) shall pay 0.25% of the net
premium received quarterly into a Fire Services Maintenance Fund which shall be
established, administered and disbursed by the Commission for the purpose of
providing grant or equipment to institutions engaged in fire-fighting services.
(4) An insurer who defaults in making payment as required under subsection (3) is liable
to a penalty of not more than 10 times the amount payable, provided that persistence
in non-compliance with the provision shall be a ground for the cancellation of
registration of an insurer.
(5) An owner or occupier of premises who contravenes the provision of this section,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least ₦1,000,000 or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or both.
(6) In this section, “public building” includes a tenement house of more than one floor
hostel, a building occupied by a tenant, lodger or licensee and any building to which
members of the public have access for the purpose of obtaining educational or medical
service, or for the purpose of recreation or transaction of business.
(7) The Commission shall request the approving authority for building plans to seal up any
building on reasonable belief that it poses serious risk to the public and no adequate or
evidence of insurance has been provided in accordance with section 75 of this Act.
77. (1) All assets and employees of the Federal Government and its agencies shall be insured Insurance of
against the hazards and perils of such nature as the Commission may determine. Government
assets and
employees
(2) The Commission shall make regulations on the decision-making process of such risk
in a manner that is expedient and in the interest of all stakeholders.
78. (1) All petroleum and gas refilling stations and installations shall be insured against third- Insurance of
party losses occasioned by accidental fire outbreak or explosion. petroleum and
gas stations and
products in
(2) All vehicles transporting petroleum and gas products shall be insured against third- transit
party losses occasioned by accidental fire outbreak or explosion.
(3) The responsibility of the cover referred to in subsections (1) and (2) shall be on the
owner of the petroleum and gas products in transit, or owner or operator of the relevant
refilling station as the case may be.
(4) A copy of certificate of insurance that meets the minimum requirement shall be
displayed in a conspicuous location at the refilling station or included in the documents
covering the petroleum and gas products in transit as the case may be.
(5) A person who fails to comply with subsections (1), (2) and (3) is liable on conviction
to a fine of at least ₦1,000,000 or a minimum term of two years imprisonment or both.
(6) The Commission shall make regulations for effective implementation of this section.
79. (1) Where a house or any other building insured against loss by fire is damaged or Application of
destroyed by fire and there is no reasonable ground to suspect that the owner, occupier proceed of
claims on houses
or any other person who insured the house or other building is guilty of fraud in respect
destroyed by fire
of the insurance, or of willfully causing the fire, the insurer who is liable to make good
the loss may, on the request of any person entitled or interested in the insured house
or building cause the insurance money payable to be paid out and expended as set out
in subsection (2).
(2) The insurance money payable under subsection (1) shall be paid out and expended
towards re-building, re-instating or repairing of the house or any other building so burnt
down, damaged or destroyed by fire, unless —
(a) the party or parties claiming such insurance money, within 60 days after the
claim is agreed, gives security to the satisfaction of the insurer that the
insurance money will be paid out and expended as stated; or
(b) the insurance money is, at the time, settled and disposed of among all the
parties entitled as the insurer may determine with the approval of the court
on the application of the insurer or any of the interested parties.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the insured shall have the right to
elect whether to re-instate the house or building damaged or destroyed by fire, or to
pay the insured for the loss suffered but not exceeding the insured sum.
80. (1) A health care provider shall — Professional
indemnity by
health care
(a) maintain a professional indemnity insurance from a registered
providers
insurance company; and
(b) display in its office, its Certificate of Insurance.
(2) A health care provider who fails to comply with the provisions of this section is liable
to such fine as may be prescribed by the Commission in consultation with the National
Health Insurance Authority or any other body established by an Act of the National
Assembly to replace it.
(3) A health care provider shall have the meaning assigned to it under the National Health
Act No. 17, 2022
Insurance Authority Act, or any other applicable Act and shall include a provider of
mortuary services.
81. (1) The provisions of this section shall apply in addition to the provisions of the Civil Aviation
Aviation Act. insurance
(2) Where the provisions of the Civil Aviation Act in relation to insurance matters are
Act No. 30, 2022
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.
(3) A carrier operating air transport services to, from or within Nigeria, or an aerodrome
operator, aviation fuel supplier, or a provider of ground handling services, traffic
control services, aircraft maintenance services, or a provider of such other related or
allied services as the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority may determine, shall maintain
adequate insurance covering their liabilities —
(a) under the Civil Aviation Act; and
(b) to pay compensation for damages that may be sustained by third parties.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Civil Aviation Act —
(a) the policy document as an evidence of insurance cover shall be deposited by
the carrier, operator or other aviation service provider with the Commission
not later than seven days before commencement of operation; and
(b) a carrier, operator or other aviation service provider who fails to deliver the
policy document referred to in paragraph (a) shall not be allowed to
commence operation.
(5) Any carrier, operator or other aviation service provider that commences operation
without having complied with the provisions of this section commits an offence and is
liable on conviction to a fine of not less than three times the value of all related
premiums payable on the various classes of insurance required and any of its principal
officers who is responsible is liable on conviction to imprisonment for a maximum
term of 12 months or both.
82. (1) An insurance in respect of goods and merchandise to be imported into Nigeria shall be Insurance of
made with an insurer registered under this Act. import of goods
and merchandise
(2) The provisions of any law, contract or instrument shall be construed with such
modifications, amendments and omissions, as may bring them into conformity with the
general intendment of this section.
(3) Without prejudice to subsection (1), every letter of credit or such similar document
issued by any bank or other financial institution in Nigeria in respect of such goods and
merchandise shall be on a carriage and freight basis only.
(4) An importer, consignee, shipper, broker or agent who effects any insurance other than
in compliance with the provisions of this section commits an offence and is liable on
conviction to a fine of ₦1,000,000 or the premium involved, whichever is higher.
83. (1) The Commission may set up an ad-hoc committee to deal with matters relating to any Ad-hoc
class of insurance business made compulsory by this Act. committee on
compulsory
insurance
(2) The Committee set up by the Commission under subsection (1) shall consist of such
business
number of persons with relevant qualification, knowledge, skill, and experience on the
subject matter and perform such functions as the Commission may determine.
PART X — MOTOR VEHICLES (THIRD-PARTY) INSURANCE
84. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, a person shall not use, cause or permit any other Insurance against
person to use a motor vehicle or be in effective control of such a vehicle unless there third-party risks
is in effect in relation to the use of that motor vehicle by such person or such other
person as the case may be, a policy of insurance in respect of third-party risks in
compliance with the provisions of this Part.
(2) A person who contravenes the provision of this section is liable on conviction to a fine
of at least ₦250,000 or imprisonment to a maximum term of 12 months or both.
(3) A person shall be deemed to be in effective control of a motor vehicle within the
meaning of this section if he is the owner of the motor vehicle or directs, instructs or
orders the motor vehicle to be used on a highway or in any other public place.
(4) In relation to a vehicle carrying passengers for hire or reward, every fare paying
passenger in the vehicle shall be insured by the operator of the vehicle against death or
bodily injury.
(5) Pursuant to the provisions of subsection (4), the amount of compensation payable in
respect of death or total permanent disability shall be ₦2,000,000 or such higher sum
as the Commission may specify in regulations.
85. Notwithstanding the provisions of any law, proceedings in respect of an offence under Limitation of
section 84 of this Act may be instituted within a period — time for
proceedings
(a) of 12 months from the date of the commission of the alleged offence; or
(b) not exceeding 12 months from the date on which it came to the knowledge
of the prosecutor that the offence had been committed or one year from the
date of the commission of the offence, whichever period is longer.
86. (1) The provisions of this Part shall not apply to — Exemptions
(a) the user of a motor vehicle owned or in use for military purposes by the
Nigerian Armed Forces; and
(b) vehicles of government of a foreign State with which there is reciprocal
agreement with the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in use
by the Diplomatic Mission or officials of such State while such vehicles are
being used in the course of official duties.
(2) With respect to subsection (1) (a), the Minister of Defence or such other body
responsible for defence matters shall be liable for all third-party risks.
(3) With respect to subsection (1) (b), where there is no reciprocal agreement, the
Diplomatic Mission shall be liable for all third-party risks.
87. (1) A policy of insurance, for the purposes of this Part, shall be a policy which — Requirements in
respect of
(a) is issued by a registered insurer; and policies and
certificates of
insurance
(b) insures such persons or classes of persons as may be specified in the policy
in respect of liability which may be incurred by him or them in respect of
—
(i) death of or bodily injury to third parties,
(ii) medical expenses of any third-party accident victim not exceeding
₦100,000 for out- patient treatment and ₦250,000 for in- patient
treatment or such sum as may be prescribed by the Commission,
and
(iii) damage to the property of third parties not exceeding ₦3,000,000
or such sum as may be prescribed by the Commission, caused by
or arising out of the use of a motor vehicle covered by the policy.
(2) The policy of insurance mentioned in subsection (1) shall in addition provide
compensation for damage to any public property on the highways including
streetlights, traffic lights, crash barriers and sign posts.
(3) Where any payment is made, whether or not with an admission of liability by an insurer
under or in consequence of a policy issued under the provisions of this Act in respect
of the death or bodily injury to any person arising out of the use of a motor vehicle and
the deceased or person who sustained bodily injury has to the knowledge of the insurer
received treatment at a hospital, whether as an in-patient or out-patient, in respect of
the injury, the insurer shall pay to the hospital the expenses reasonably incurred in
giving such treatment after deducting any money received by such hospital in payment
of a specific charge for the treatment:
Provided that the amount to be paid by the insurer shall not exceed ₦1,500,000 for in-
patient or ₦500,000 for out-patient or such sum as may be prescribed by the
Commission for each person so treated.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, a person issuing a policy of insurance
under this section shall be liable to indemnify a person specified in the policy in respect
of any liability which the policy purports to cover.
88. (1) Any condition in a policy issued under this Part shall be of no effect in connection with Certain
such claims where it provides that — conditions in
policies to be of
no effect
(a) no liability shall arise under the policy; or
(b) any liability so arising shall cease in the event of some specified thing being
done or omitted to be done after the happening of the event giving rise to a
claim under the policy.
(2) Nothing in this section shall be so construed as to render void any provision in a policy
requiring the person insured to repay to the insurer any sums which the insurer may
have become liable to pay under the policy and which have been applied to the
satisfaction of the claims of third parties.
89. (1) Where an insurance policy has been taken out under the provisions of section 87 of this Avoidance of
Act by the insured, so much of the policy as purports to restrict the insurance of the restriction on
third-party
person insured, in respect of any of the following matters, the —
policies
(a) age or physical or mental condition of persons driving the motor vehicle,
(b) condition of the motor vehicle,
(c) number of persons that the motor vehicle carries,
(d) weight or physical characteristics of the goods that the motor vehicle carries,
(e) times at which or the areas within which the motor vehicle is used,
(f) horsepower or value of the motor vehicle,
(g) carrying on the motor vehicle of any particular apparatus, or
(h) carrying on the motor vehicle of any means of identification required to be
carried under the provisions of the Road Traffic Laws, in respect of such
liabilities as are required to be covered by a policy under section 91 (1) (b)
of this Act,
shall be of no effect.
(2) Any sum paid by an insurer in or towards the discharge of the liability of any person
which is covered by the policy by virtue of this section shall be recoverable by the
insurer from that person.
90. (1) Where a judgment in respect of any liability covered by the terms of the policy is Duty of insurer
obtained against any person insured, notwithstanding that the insurer may be entitled to satisfy
judgments
to avoid or cancel or may have avoided or cancelled the policy, the insurer shall, subject
to the provisions of this section, pay to the persons entitled to the benefit of such
judgment, any sum payable, including any sum payable in respect of costs, written law
or any interest on that judgment sum.
(2) No sum shall be payable by an insurer under the provisions of subsection (1) in
connection with any liability if before the happening of the event, which was the cause
of the death or bodily injury or property damage giving rise to the liability, the policy
was cancelled by mutual consent or by virtue of any provision contained in it —
(a) before the happening of such event the certificate of insurance was
surrendered to the insurer or the person to whom the certificate of insurance
was delivered made a statutory declaration stating that the certificate of
insurance had been lost or destroyed and so could not be surrendered;
(b) after the happening of such event but before the expiration of 14 days from
the coming into effect of the cancellation of the policy, the certificate of
insurance was surrendered to the insurer or the person to whom the
certificate of insurance was delivered, a statutory declaration that the
certificate of insurance had been lost or destroyed and so could not be
surrendered; or
(c) before or after the happening of the event or within 14 days from the coming
into effect of the cancellation of the policy the insurer had commenced
proceedings under this Part in respect of the failure to surrender the
certificate of insurance.
(3) No sum shall be payable by an insurer under the provisions of this section if, in an
action commenced before or within three months after the commencement of the
proceedings in which the judgment was given, the insurer has —
(a) obtained a declaration that apart from any provision contained in the policy,
he is entitled to avoid it on the ground that it was obtained by the non-
disclosure of a material fact or by a representation of fact which was false
in a material particular; or
(b) avoided the policy on the ground that he was entitled to do so
notwithstanding any provision contained in the policy.
(4) An insurer who obtained the declaration referred to in subsection (3), in an action shall
not be entitled to the benefit of the provisions of this subsection in respect of any
judgment obtained in any proceedings commenced before the commencement of that
action unless, within seven days after the commencement of that action, the insurer has
given notice to the plaintiff in the action under the policy, specifying the non-disclosure
or false representation on which he proposes to rely and that he intends to seek a
declaration and any person to whom notice of such action is given may, if he desires,
be made a party to it.
(5) Where the amount which an insurer under the provisions of this section, becomes liable
to pay, in respect of the liability of a person insured by the policy exceeds the amount
for which he may, apart from the provisions of this section, be liable to pay under the
policy in respect of that liability, he shall be entitled to recover the excess from that
person.
(6) In this Part, references to a certificate of insurance in any provision relating to the
surrender or loss or destruction of a certificate shall —
(a) in relation to policies under which more than one certificate is issued, be
construed as references to all or any of such certificates; and
(b) where any copy of a certificate has been issued, be construed as including a
reference to such copy.
91. (1) Where, in a policy issued under this Act for the purposes of this Part, a person, (in this Rights of third
Act referred to as “the insured”) is insured against liabilities to third parties which the parties against
insurers
insured may incur —
(a) in the event of the insured becoming bankrupt or making a composition or
arrangement with his creditors, or
(b) where the insured is a company, and a winding-up order has been made or
a resolution for the voluntary winding-up of the company passed or a
receiver or manager of the company's business or undertaking has been
appointed or in the event of possession having been taken by or on behalf
of the holders of any debentures secured by a floating charge on any
property comprised in or subject to the charge, before or after any such
liability is incurred by the insured,
his rights against the insurer under the policy in respect of that liability shall,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any written law, be
transferred to and vested in the third-party to whom the liability was incurred.
(2) Where, under the provisions of any law, an order is made for the administration in
bankruptcy of the estate of a deceased debtor then if any debt, which may be proved in
bankruptcy, is owed by the deceased in respect of a liability against which he was
insured under a policy issued for the purposes of this Part as being a liability to a third
party, the rights of the deceased debtor against the insurer under that policy shall,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law, be transferred to and
vest in the person to whom the debt is owed.
(3) Credit providers or lenders are obligated to mandate borrowers who take out loans
exceeding ₦10,000,000 to obtain credit life insurance and this insurance shall cover
the remaining balance of credit obtained if the borrower dies or becomes permanently
disabled and the cost of the insurance shall be transparently disclosed to the borrower,
and the lender shall be designated as the beneficiary in the policy to settle the
outstanding debt in the event of the borrower's death or permanent disability.
(4) Any condition in a policy issued for the purposes of this Part purporting directly or
indirectly to avoid the policy or to alter the rights of the parties upon the happening of
any of the events specified in subsection (1) or (2), shall be of no effect.
(5) Upon a transfer of rights under subsection (1) or (2) the insurer shall, subject to the
provisions of section 92 of this Act, be under the same liability to the third-party as he
may have been to the insured except where the liability of the insurer to the insured —
(a) exceeds the liability of the insured to the third-party, and nothing in this Part
shall affect the right of the insured against the insurer in respect of such
excess; and
(b) is less than the liability of the insured to the third-party, nothing in this Act
shall affect the rights of the third-party against the insured in respect of the
balance.
(6) The provisions of this section shall —
(a) not apply where a company is wound up voluntarily merely for the purposes
of reconstruction or of amalgamation with another company; and
(b) apply to other insurances made compulsory under this Act.
(7) For the purposes of this section Act and section 92 of this Act the expression "liabilities
to third parties", in relation to a person insured under a policy of insurance, shall not
include any liability of that person in the capacity of insurer under some other policy
of insurance.
92. (1) Any person against whom a claim is made in respect of any liability required to be Duty to give
covered by a policy shall, on demand by or on behalf of the person making such claim, information to
third parties
state whether or not he was insured in respect of that liability by any policy having
effect for the purpose of this Act or may have been so insured if the insurer had not
cancelled or avoided the policy and, if he were or may have been so insured, give such
particulars with regard to that policy as were specified in the certificate of insurance
issued.
(2) In the event of —
(a) a person becoming bankrupt or making a composition or arrangement with
his creditors,
(b) an order being made under the provisions of any law relating to bankruptcy
in respect of the estate of any person, or
(c) a winding-up order being made or a resolution for a voluntary winding-up
being passed with respect to any company or of a receiver or manager of
the company's business or undertaking being duly appointed or of
possession being taken, by or on behalf of the holders of any debentures
secured by a floating charge, of any property comprised in or subject to the
charge,
it shall be the duty of the bankrupt debtor, personal representative of the deceased
debtor and, as the case may be, of the official assignee, trustee, liquidator, receiver,
manager, or person in possession of the property to give, at the request of any person
claiming in respect of liability of him, such information as may reasonably be required
to ascertain whether any rights have been transferred to and vested in him under the
provisions of this Act.
(3) For the purpose of enforcing the right provided under subsection (2) and any contract
of insurance that purports directly to avoid the contract or to alter the rights of the
parties upon the giving of any such information or to prohibit, prevent or limit the
giving of such information shall be of no effect.
(4) Where the information given to any person under the provisions of subsection (2)
discloses reasonable grounds of belief that the rights may have been transferred to him
under the provisions of this Part against any particular insurer, that insurer shall be
subject to the same duty as imposed by subsection (2) on the persons mentioned in it.
(5) The duty imposed by this section to give information, shall include a duty to allow all
contracts of insurance, receipts for premiums and other relevant documents in the
possession, power or control of the person on whom the duty is so imposed, to be
inspected and copies to be taken.
(6) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with the provisions of this
section or who willfully or negligently makes any false or misleading statement in
response to a demand for information commits an offence under this Act.
93. Where a person insured under a policy under this Part becomes bankrupt or where such Certain
insured person being a company, a winding-up order has been made or resolution for a settlements
between insurer
voluntary winding-up has been passed with respect to that company, no agreement made
and insured to be
between the insurer and the insured after liability has been incurred to a third-party and
of no effect
after the commencement of the bankruptcy or the winding-up, as the case may be, nor any
waiver, assignment or other disposition made by or payment made to the insured after
such commencement, shall be effective to defeat or affect the rights transferred to or
vested in the third-party and such rights shall be the same as if no such agreement,
waiver, assignment, disposition or payment had been made.
94. Where, under the provisions of this Part, a certificate of insurance has been delivered to Bankruptcy of
the person by whom a policy has been effected, in relation to any person insured by the insured person
not to affect
policy of any of the events specified in section 91(1) or (2) notwithstanding anything
certain claims
contained in this Part, the liability of that person as required to be covered by a policy
under the provisions of this Part, shall not be affected and nothing in this section shall
affect any right against the insurer conferred under this section and the provisions of
sections 90 and 92 of this Act on the person to whom the liability was incurred.
95. (1) Any settlement made by an insurer in respect of a claim which might be made by a Further right of
third-party in respect of any liability as required to be covered by a policy issued under third parties
against insurers
the provisions of this Part shall not be valid unless such third-party is a party to such
settlement.
(2) A policy issued under the provisions of this Part shall remain in effect and available for
third parties notwithstanding the death of any person insured under such policy as if
such insured person were still alive.
96. (1) A person driving a motor vehicle on a highway or on any public place shall, on being Further right of
required by a law enforcement officer — third parties
against insurers
and certificates
(a) give his name and address and the name and address of the owner of the
to be produced
motor vehicle; and
(b) produce his certificate of insurance or insurance cover note in print or
electronic form.
(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) commits an offence and is
liable on conviction, to a fine not exceeding ₦25,000.
(3) Where, owing to the presence of a motor vehicle on a highway or any public place, an
accident occurs involving bodily injury to any person the driver of the motor vehicle
shall produce his certificate of insurance or cover note or copy of same to a law
enforcement officer or to any person having reasonable grounds for requiring its
production and if any such driver, for any reason, is unable to produce his certificate
of insurance or cover note, he shall immediately and not later than 24 hours of the
occurrence, report the accident and produce his certificate of insurance or cover note
to the police station nearest to the scene of the accident.
(4) A person who contravenes the provision of subsection (3) commits an offence and is
liable on conviction, to a fine not exceeding ₦50,000.
(5) The provisions of this section shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, the
relevant provisions of the Road Traffic Laws.
(6) In this section, the expression "to produce a certificate of insurance" means to produce
for examination the relevant certificate of insurance or cover note that the motor
vehicle is not being driven in contravention of the provision of this Part.
97. The owner of a motor vehicle shall give such information as may be required by a law Duty of owner
enforcement officer for the purpose of determining whether the motor vehicle is not being
driven in contravention of the provisions of this Part on any occasion in which the driver
is required to produce his certificate and, any owner who fails to do so commits an offence
and is liable on conviction to a fine of ₦25,000.
98. (1) Where a person, for the purpose of obtaining a certificate of insurance makes any False statements
statement, either oral or written, which is false or misleading or withholds any material or forging of
certificates
information, such person shall, unless he proves to the satisfaction of the court that he
acted without any intent to deceive, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding ₦100,000 or imprisonment for a term of six months or both.
(2) Any person who —
(a) forges, alters, defaces or mutilates any certificate of insurance or any other
document issued under this Part,
(b) uses or allows to be used by any other person any forged, altered, defaced
or mutilated certificate of insurance or any other document issued under this
Part,
(c) lends to or borrows from any other person so closely resembling any
certificate or document issued under the provisions of this Part,
(d) makes or has in his possession any document so closely resembling any
certificate or document issued under the provisions of this Part as to be
calculated to deceive, or
(e) issues a certificate of insurance or other document to be issued under the
provisions of this Part,
commits of an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
₦200,000 or imprisonment for a term of one year or both.
99. There is established a Fund to be known as the Road Accident Victims Compensation Road Accident
Fund (hereinafter referred to as "the Fund") into which shall be paid 0.5% of the Victims’
Compensation
underwriting profit on motor insurance business.
Fund
100. (1) There is established the Road Safety and Accident Victims Compensation Committee Road Accident
(in this Act referred to as "the Compensation Committee") responsible for over-seeing Victims’
Compensation
the management of the Fund.
Committee
(2) The Compensation Committee shall consist of —
(a) a Chairman representing the insurance industry (Nigerian Insurers
Association);
(b) three persons appointed by the Commission, one of whom shall be a medical
practitioner with cognate experience in orthopedic and trauma medicine;
(c) two representatives of the Commission;
(d) a representative of the Federal Road Safety Corps;
(e) a representative of the Nigerian Police Force;
(f) a person to be appointed by the State Traffic Agencies on rotation basis
among the States of the federation;
(g) a representative of the Federal Ministry of Finance, from the directorate
cadre; and
(h) representatives of intermediaries.
(3) The amount due from every insurer under section 99 shall be paid quarterly to the Fund
which shall be administered and disbursed, on the recommendation of the
Compensation Committee, by the Commission.
(4) The Commission shall on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee
administer and disburse money accruing to the Fund as follows —
(a) 10% to the Federal Road Safety Commission as grant for the procurement
of equipment;
(b) 10% to the Nigeria Police Force as grant for the procurement of equipment;
(c) 10% to road-traffic agencies for the procurement of equipment;
(d) 65% into a separate fund out of which the Commission shall pay
compensation, in accordance with regulations made by the Commission, to
any person in respect of death or bodily injury following a motor vehicle
accident caused by an uninsured vehicle or an unidentified driver and
expenses reasonably incurred by any hospital known to have treated any
person involved in any motor accident by an uninsured vehicle or
unidentified driver provided such hospital expenses shall not exceed the
sum of ₦2,000,000 for any person treated and this may be reviewed by the
Commission; and
(e) not more than 5% as cost of administration and management of the Fund.
(5) An insurer who defaults in making payment as required under section 99 is liable to a
penalty of a sum equal to five times the amount payable, provided that persistent non-
compliance with the requirement of section 99 shall be a ground for suspension of
authorisation to underwrite motor insurance policies by the Commission.
(6) Subject to the approval of the Minister, on the recommendation of the Commission, the
percentage disbursement stipulated in subsection (4) may be reviewed every five years
after the commencement of this Act.
101. Any person who is found guilty of an offence under this Part for which no specific penalty General penalty
is provided is liable in respect of a first conviction, to a penalty of ₦250,000 or under this Part
imprisonment for six months or both and in the case of a second or subsequent conviction
to a penalty of ₦500,000 or imprisonment for a maximum term of 12 months or both.
102. In this Part — Interpretation in
this Part
"bankruptcy" with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions includes
insolvency under the laws of Nigeria;
"company" includes any company registered or required to be registered under the
provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act No. 3 of 2020;
"days" means working days;
"drivers licence" means a licence to drive a motor vehicle granted under the
provisions of the Federal Road Safety Commission (Establishment) Act, No. 22,
2007 or law applicable in a state in Nigeria;
"highway" or "public place" includes any roadway, car park, path or place to which
the public have access;
"liability covered by the terms of the policy" means a liability which is covered by
the policy or which would be covered were it not that the insurer is entitled to avoid
or cancel or has avoided or cancelled the policy;
"material" means of such a nature as to influence the judgment of a prudent insurer
in determining whether he will accept the risk and, if so, at what premium and on
what conditions;
"motorcycle" or "tricycle" means a motor vehicle designed to travel on not more than
three wheels and includes a combination of motorcycle and side car;
"motor-vehicle" means a vehicle propelled by mechanical power other than a vehicle
constructed to run on rails and includes a motor-cycle and tricycle;
"owner" in relation to a motor vehicle which is subject of a hiring or hire purchase
agreement means the person in possession of the vehicle under the agreement;
"third party" means any person other than the insurer and the insured who sustains
physical injury or property damage as a result of an accident caused by or involving
a motor vehicle in use or under the control of a person whose liability is covered
under a policy; and
"use" with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions means use on a
highway or other public place and where any word or expression used in this Act is
defined in the Road Traffic laws, such word or expression, unless the context
otherwise requires, shall bear in this Act the meaning assigned to it in the Road
Traffic laws.
PART XI — ECOWAS BROWN CARD SCHEME
103. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other enactment and in Establishment of
accordance with the provisions of Article 5 of the Protocol on the ECOWAS Brown the National
Bureau on the
Card Scheme ("the Scheme") there is established a National Bureau on the ECOWAS
ECOWAS
Brown Card Scheme (in this Act referred to as "the Bureau").
Brown Card
Scheme
(2) The Bureau shall —
(a) be a body corporate with perpetual succession; and
(b) have a common seal with power to sue and be sued in its corporate name.
(3) The Bureau shall be managed by a board of directors (in this Act referred to as "the
Management Board") which shall comprise of —
(a) a Chairman, who elected by the General Assembly;
(b) three representatives of motor underwriting companies that are members of
the Bureau elected at a general meeting of the Bureau;
(c) a representative of the Governing Council of the Nigerian Insurers
Association;
(d) three persons representing the public to be appointed by the Commission;
and
(e) the Executive Secretary of the Bureau who shall be the Secretary of the
Board.
(4) The tenure of office and procedure for meetings of the Management Board shall be as
prescribed by the Commission.
(5) The Bureau shall —
(a) be charged with responsibility for issuing ECOWAS Brown Cards to motor
insurers as required under the Protocol;
(b) handle Nigeria's financial and other commitments under the Protocol;
(c) be the managers of insurance operations against liability risks in respect of
motor vehicle accidents;
(d) settle claims arising from accidents involving holders of ECOWAS Brown
Cards issued by the Bureau in any West African country under the Scheme;
(e) handle claims arising from accidents caused in Nigeria by holders of the
Brown Cards issued by the Bureau of other participating countries; and
(f) enter into agreements with Nigerian insurers who shall apply to participate
in the Scheme as members of the Bureau.
(6) The participating members shall make contributions towards the operating expenses of
the Bureau and provide the Bureau with such guarantees as the Bureau may require.
(7) An insurer shall not participate in the Scheme unless it has entered into an agreement
with the Bureau in accordance with the provisions of subsection (5) (f).
(8) From the commencement of this Act, all motor vehicle insurance cover issued in
Nigeria, shall carry automatic Brown Card.
104. (1) The Bureau established under section 103 of this Act shall be subject to all the Savings and
obligations and liabilities to which the former Bureau was subject to immediately transitional
provisions
before the commencement of this Act and all other persons shall have the same rights,
pertaining to the
powers and remedies against the Bureau established by this Act as they had against
Bureau
the Bureau immediately before the commencement of this Act.
(2) Any proceeding or cause of action pending or existing immediately before the
commencement of this Act by or against the former Bureau in respect of any right,
interest, obligation or liability of that Bureau may be continued or, as the case may be,
commenced and any determination of a court of law, tribunal or other Commission or
person may be enforced by or against the Bureau established by this Act to the same
extent that such proceeding, cause of action or determination might have been
continued, commenced or enforced by or against the Bureau as if this Act had not
been made.
(3) All assets, funds, resources and other movable property which, immediately before the
commencement of this Act were vested in the former Bureau shall be vested in the
Bureau established by section 103 of this Act.
105. The Bureau established by this Act shall be competent to appoint officers as may be Appointment of
necessary for the administration of the Bureau. staff by the
Bureau
106. (1) Where any claim referred to under this Part and Part XI arises out of an accident Police report in
involving one or more vehicles, it shall not be necessary, if there is sufficient motor accidents
cases
evidence of proof of loss or damage, for any claimant to report and deliver a police
report to the insurer, except death of or serious bodily injury to a person is involved.
(2) Without prejudice to any other mode of proof, it is sufficient evidence of proof of loss
or damage for the purpose of this section, where —
(a) only one person is involved in the accident, the person delivers a statement
of the facts to the insurer concerned together with a statement of an eye
witness to the accident, if any; or
(b) more than one person is involved in the accident, each person delivers a
statement of the facts to the insurer or insurers concerned and the alleged
facts do not differ in any material particular.
(3) Nothing in this section shall be construed as implying that a police report is not required
in the case of claims arising from car theft.
(4) In Parts XI and XII "insurer" includes an insurance underwriter registered or licensed
under the laws and regulations of a West African country that is participating in the
Motor Vehicles (Third-Party Liability Insurance) ECOWAS Brown Card Scheme
relating to a motor vehicle third-party liability insurance.
PART XII — ACQUISITIONS, AMALGAMATIONS AND TRANSFERS
107. (1) Subject to the provisions of this section, an insurer shall not, without the prior approval Procedure for
of the Commission — amalgamation
(a) amalgamate with, transfer to or acquire from any other insurer any insurance
business or part of it;
(b) enter into an agreement or arrangement for the reconstruction of an insurer
business; or
(c) enter into an agreement or arrangement to employ a management agent or
to transfer business to any such agent.
(2) The Commission may, before granting an approval under subsection (1), call for such
statements, documents and other information as may be prescribed by the Commission.
(3) Prior to making an application to the Commission for approval of any transaction under
this section, certified true copies of each of the following documents shall be kept open
for inspection by the members and policyholders at the principal and branch offices of
the insurers concerned —
(a) a draft of the proposed agreement or deed to effect the amalgamation,
acquisition or transfer;
(b) the auditor's report in respect of the insurance business of each of the
insurers concerned, prepared in the prescribed form;
(c) the actuarial reports in respect of the insurance business of each of the
insurers concerned, prepared in the prescribed form; and
(d) a report on the proposed amalgamation, transfer or acquisition prepared by
an independent actuary nominated by the company, but when the company
fails to nominate, then the Commission may nominate the independent
actuary.
(4) The deed, scheme or agreement under which an amalgamation, transfer or acquisition
as the case may be, is proposed to be effected, shall be available for inspection without
payment of any fee by policyholders and shareholders at all reasonable times in all the
offices of the insurers in Nigeria in a manner to be prescribed by the Commission.
(5) The Commission may approve the amalgamation, transfer or acquisition if it has no
objection against it.
(6) Any insurer from whom the business is transferred shall not be re-registered to
undertake the same category or class or, as the case may be, classes of insurance
business until after the expiration of five years from the date of the approval by the
Commission or sanction of the Court where applicable.
(7) Where an application for an amalgamation or transfer is refused by the Commission,
the applicant may within six months of such refusal apply to Court for a review.
(8) The Commission shall by regulation provide for the process, requirements and timeline
for obtaining its approval for any transaction under this section.
108. Within three months after the date of completion of the amalgamation, transfer or Post
acquisition of insurance business under section 107 of this Act, the insurer carrying on amalgamation
returns
the amalgamated business or to whom the business is transferred or by whom the
(documents to be
business is acquired as the case may be, shall furnish, in duplicate, to the Commission
deposited)
such documents as the Commission may prescribe.
109. Notwithstanding the provision of any other law, the provision of this Part shall apply as Prohibition law
it relates to amalgamation of insurance entities.
PART XIII — WINDING-UP
110. (1) Where the licence of an insurance operator is cancelled under this Act, the Appointment of
Commission may, unless the insurance operator is a body corporate being wound up receiver or
provisional
by the Court, appoint a receiver or provisional liquidator to —
liquidator
(a) immediately take charge of insurance operator's assets;
(b) collect and gather in all other assets due to the insurance operator; and
(c) administer the assets as expeditiously as possible for the benefit of the
policyholders, clients and creditors of the insurance operator.
(2) The Commission or the appointed receiver or provisional liquidator after his
appointment may apply to the Court to wind up the business of the insurance operator
and for this purpose, the provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act relating
Act No. 3, 2020
to winding-up of companies by the Court shall, subject to the provision of this Act,
apply.
(3) The receiver or provisional liquidator may, immediately after his appointment freeze
the accounts of the insurance operator and shall take charge of its management and
control.
(4) The liquidation fee payable to the liquidator shall be determined by the Commission.
(5) Subject to the provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act or any other Act No. 3, 2020
enactment, the following order of priority shall apply in the settlement of debts owed
by a failed insurance operator being wound up —
(a) liquidation fees and expenses;
(b) policy holders;
(c) secured creditors;
(d) other creditors;
(e) staff; and
(f) shareholders and directors.
(6) Where in any action challenging —
(a) the cancellation of the licence of an insurance operator,
(b) a petition for winding-up the affairs of an insurance operator, or
(c) the appointment of a liquidator, an application for an interim or interlocutory
injunction is brought against the Commission or the liquidator appointed by
it seeking to restrain the Commission or the appointed liquidator from
paying policyholders of a failed insurance operator,
the party applying shall put the Commission or the liquidator on notice.
(7) The Commission or liquidator appointed by the Commission shall cause a notice to be
published in a national newspaper or other news media requiring all policyholders and
creditors with the failed insurance operator under liquidation to forward their claims
to the Commission or the liquidator.
(8) The Commission or liquidator of the failed insurance operator shall have power to —
(a) realise the assets of the failed insurance operator;
(b) enforce the individual liability of the shareholders and directors of the failed
insurance operator; and
(c) wind up the affairs of the failed insurance operator as provided under this
Act.
(9) The provisions of the Limitation Law of a State or the Limitation Act of the Federal Cap. 522 Laws
Capital Territory shall not apply to any debt owed to a failing or failed insurance of FCT
operator.
(10) There shall be no action, suit or proceedings, proceeded with or commenced against
any insurer over which the Commission acts as liquidator or against the Commission
or its agent except by leave of court given on such terms as the court may impose.
111. A petition for the winding-up of an insurer may be presented to the Court either — Petition for
winding-up in
other cases
(a) subject to the approval of the Commission by at least 50 policyholders, each
of whom holds a policy that has been in effect for at least three years, on
the grounds specified in section 571 and 572 of the Companies and Allied Act No. 3, 2020
Matters Act; or
(b) by the Commission on any of the following grounds that the —
(i) licence of the insurer has been cancelled in accordance with section
8 of this Act, or
(ii) insurer may not be revived despite the intervention of the
Commission.
112. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act or any other Prohibition of
enactment, no insurer which transacts life assurance business shall voluntarily wind-up voluntary
winding-up
its business except for the purpose of effecting an amalgamation, transfer or acquisition
under this Act.
Act No. 3, 2020
113. (1) The Commission or receiver or liquidator appointed for the winding-up shall, unless Continuation of
the Court otherwise orders, carry on the life insurance business of the insurer with a life insurance
business in
view to its being transferred, as a going concern, to another insurer, whether an
liquidation
existing insurer or an insurer registered for that purpose.
(2) In carrying on the business specified in subsection (1), the Commission or receiver or
liquidator appointed may agree to the variation of any contract of insurance in
existence when the winding-up order is made, provided it shall not affect new
contracts of insurance.
(3) The Court may, subject to such conditions as it may determine, reduce the amount of
the contracts made by the insurer in the course of carrying on life insurance business.
(4) The Commission or the Court may at any time on the application of the liquidator,
appoint an independent actuary to investigate the life insurance business of the insurer.
(5) The actuary shall report to the Commission the desirability or otherwise of the life
insurance business being continued and on any reduction in the contracts made in the
course of carrying on that business that may be necessary for its successful
continuation.
(6) The Commission or the liquidator may petition the Court in the name or on behalf of
the insurer as provided in this Act.
(7) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in a life insurance contract, upon
cancellation of the registration of a life insurance company, the requirement for the
payment of premium in the contract shall abate until the life insurance business of the
company is transferred to another life insurance company under the provisions of this
Act:
Provided that where the life policyholder elects to continue to pay such premium, the
receiver or liquidator appointed to manage the life insurance company whose
registration has been cancelled under this Act, shall ensure the collection of such
premium.
114. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, no policyholder's funds or assets kept Exemption of
with an insurer shall be seized or subject of any execution of judgment debt or be used insurance funds
from liquidation
to meet the claims of any of the insurer's creditors in the event of liquidation, winding-
or garnishee
up or otherwise cessation of business of the insurer.
PART XIV — MARINE INSURANCE
115. A contract of marine insurance is a contract of the utmost good faith whereby the insurer Marine insurance
undertakes to indemnify the assured, in the manner and to the extent agreed, against defined
marine losses, that is to say, the losses incident to marine adventure.
116. (1) A contract of marine insurance may, by its express terms, or by usage of trade, be Mixed sea and
extended so as to protect the assured against losses on inland waters or any land risk land risks
which may be incidental to any sea voyage.
(2) Where a ship in the course of building, or the launch of a ship, or any adventure
analogous to a marine adventure, is covered by a policy in the form of a marine policy,
the provisions of this Part, shall apply, but, except as by this section provided, nothing
in this Part shall alter or affect any rule of law applicable to any contract of insurance
other than a contract of marine insurance as defined in section 115 of this Act.
117. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, every lawful marine adventure may be the Marine
subject of a contract of marine insurance. adventure and
maritime perils
(2) There is a marine adventure where —
(a) any ship, goods or other moveables are exposed to marine perils, such
property being referred to in this Part as "insurable property";
(b) the earning or acquisition of any freight, passage money, commission, profit
or other pecuniary benefit, or the security for any advances, loan, or
disbursements, is endangered by the exposure of insurable property to
maritime perils; and
(c) any liability to a third-party may be incurred by the owner of, or other
persons interested in or responsible for, insurable property, by reason of
maritime perils.
(3) For the purposes of this Part, "maritime perils" means the perils consequent on, or
incidental to the navigation of the sea, that is say, perils of the seas, fire, war perils,
pirates, rovers, thieves, captures, seizures, restraints, and detainment of princes and
peoples, jettisons, barratry, and any other perils, either of the like kind or which may
be designated by the policy.
118. (1) Every contract of marine insurance by way of gaming or wagering is void. Avoidance of
wagering or
gaming contracts
(2) A contract of marine insurance shall be deemed to be a gaming or wagering contract,
where the —
(a) assured has no insurable interest as defined by this Part, and the contract is
entered into with no expectation of acquiring such an interest; or
(b) policy is made "interest or no interest" or "without further proof of interest
than the policy itself", or "without benefit of salvage to the insurer" or
subject to any other like term:
Provided that, where there is no possibility of salvage, a policy may be
effected without benefit of salvage to the insurer.
119. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Part a person has an insurable interest if he is Insurable interest
interested in a marine adventure. in marine
insurance
(2) A person is interested in a marine adventure where he stands in any legal or equitable
relation to the adventure or to any insurable property at risk in consequence of which
he may benefit by the safety or due arrival of insurable property, or may be prejudiced
by its loss, or damage, or by detention, or may incur liability in respect of it.
120. (1) The assured shall be interested in the subject matter insured at the time of the loss, When interest
though he need not be interested when the insurance is effected: attaches
Provided that where the subject matter is insured “lost or not lost”, the assured may
recover although he may not have acquired his interest until after the loss, unless at
the time of effecting the contract of insurance the assured was aware of the loss, and
the insurer was not.
(2) Where the assured has no interest at the time of the loss he shall not acquire interest
by any act or election after he is aware of the loss.
121. (1) A defeasible interest shall be insurable, as also shall be a contingent interest. Defeasible or
contingent
interest
(2) Where the buyer of goods has insured them, he has an insurable interest,
notwithstanding that he might, at his election, have rejected the goods or have treated
them as at the seller's risk, by reason of the latter's delay in making delivery or
otherwise.
122. A partial interest of any nature shall be insurable. Partial interest
123. The insurer under a contract of marine insurance has an insurable interest in his risk and Reinsurance
may reinsure in respect of it, but unless the policy otherwise provides, the original
assured shall have no right or interest in respect of such reinsurance.
124. The lender of money on bottomry or respondentia has an insurable interest in respect of Bottomry
the loan.
125. The master or any member of the crew of a ship has an insurable interest in respect of his Master's and
wages. seamen's wages
126. In the case of advance freight, the person advancing the freight has an insurable interest Advance freight
where such freight is not payable in case of loss.
127. The assured has an insurable interest in the charges of any insurance which he may effect. Charges of
insurance
128. (1) Where the subject matter insured is mortgaged, the mortgagor has an insurable interest Quantum of
in the full value, and the mortgagee has an insurable interest in respect of any sum interest
due or to become due under the mortgage.
(2) A mortgagee, consignee, or other person having an interest in the subject matter
insured may insure on behalf and for the benefit of other persons interested as well as
for his own benefit.
(3) The owner of insurable property has an insurable interest in respect of the full value,
notwithstanding that some third person may have agreed, or be liable, to indemnify
him in case of loss.
129. (1) When the assured assigns or otherwise parts with his interest in the subject matter Assignment of
insured, he shall not transfer to the assignee his rights under the contract of insurance, interest
unless there is an express or implied agreement with the assignee to that effect.
(2) Nothing in this section shall affect transmission of interest by operation of law.
130. Subject to the express provision or valuation in the policy, the insurable value of the Measure of
subject matter insured shall be ascertained as follows, in insurance on — insurable value
(a) ship, the insurable value which, in the case of a steamship, includes also
the machinery, boilers, and coals and engine stores if owned by the
assured, and, in the case of a ship engaged in a special trade, the ordinary
fittings requisite for that trade, is the value at the commencement of the
risk, of the ship, including her outfit, provisions and stores for the officers
and crew, money advanced for seamen's wages, and other disbursement,
if any, incurred to make the ship fit for the voyage or adventure
contemplated by the policy plus the charges of insurance upon the whole;
(b) freight, whether paid in advance or otherwise, the insurable value is gross
amount of freight at the risk of the assured, plus the charges of insurance;
(c) goods or merchandise, the insurable value is the prime cost of the property
insured, plus the expenses of and incidental to shipping and the charges of
insurance upon the whole; and
(d) any subject matter, the insurable value is the amount at the risk of the
assured when the policy attaches, plus the charges of insurance.
131. (1) This section makes provision about disclosure and representations by an insured to an Disclosure and
insurer before a marine insurance contract is entered into or varied. representations
before contract
or variation
(2) The insured shall take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to the insurer.
(3) A failure by the insured to comply with the insurer's request to confirm or amend
particulars previously given is capable of being a misrepresentation for the purposes
of this Act.
132. (1) Before a contract of insurance is entered into, the insured shall make to the insurer a The duty of fair
fair presentation of the risk. representation
(2) The duty imposed by subsection (1) is referred to in this Act as "the duty of fair
presentation".
(3) A fair presentation of the risk is one —
(a) which makes the disclosure required by subsection (4);
(b) which makes that disclosure in a manner which would be reasonably clear
and accessible to a prudent insurer; and
(c) in which every material representation as to a matter of fact is substantially
correct, and every material representation as to a matter of expectation or
belief is made in good faith.
(4) The disclosure required is as follows, except as provided in subsection (5) —
(a) disclosure of every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought
to know; or
(b) failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put
a prudent insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the
purpose of revealing those material circumstances.
(5) In the absence of enquiry, subsection (4) does not require the insured to disclose a
circumstance if —
(a) it diminishes the risk;
(b) the insurer knows it;
(c) the insurer ought to know it;
(d) the insurer is presumed to know it; or
(e) it is something as to which the insurer waives information.
(6) Sections 133 and 134 of this Act makes further provision about the knowledge of the
insured and of the insurer respectively, and section 136 of this Act contains
supplementary provisions.
133. (1) This section provides for what an insured knows or ought to know for the purposes Knowledge of
of section 132 (4) (a) of this Act. insured
(2) An insured who is an individual knows only —
(a) what is known to the individual; and
(b) what is known to one or more of the individuals who are responsible for the
insured's insurance.
(3) An insured who is not an individual knows only what is known to one or more of the
individuals who are —
(a) part of the insured's senior management; or
(b) responsible for the insured's insurance.
(4) An insured is not by virtue of subsection (2)(b) or (3) (b) taken to know confidential
information known to an individual if the —
(a) individual is, or is an employee of, the insured's agent; and
(b) information was acquired by the insured's agent, or by an employee of that
agent, through a business relationship with a person who is not connected
with the contract of insurance.
(5) For the purposes of subsection (4), the persons connected with a contract of insurance
are —
(a) the insured and other persons for whom cover is provided by the contract;
and
(b) if the contract reinsures risks covered by another contract, the persons who
are, by virtue of this subsection, connected with that other contract.
(6) Whether an individual or not, an insured ought to know what may reasonably have
been revealed by a reasonable search of information available to the insured, whether
the search is conducted by making enquiries or by any other means.
(7) In subsection (6), "information" includes information held within the insured's
organisation or by any other person, such as the insured's agent or a person for whom
cover is provided by the contract of insurance.
(8) For the purposes of this section —
(a) "employee", in relation to the insured's agent, includes any individual
working for the agent, whatever the capacity in which the individual acts;
(b) an individual is responsible for the insured's insurance if the individual
participates on behalf of the insured in the process of procuring the insured's
insurance, whether the individual does so as the insured's employee or
agent, as an employee of the insured's agent or in any other capacity; and
(c) "senior management" means those individuals who play significant roles in
the making of decisions about how the insured's activities are to be managed
or organised.
134. (1) For the purposes of section 132 (5) (b) of this Act, an insurer knows something only Knowledge of
if it is known to one or more of the individuals who participate on behalf of the insurer insurer
in the decision whether to take the risk, and if so, on what terms, whether the
individual does so as the insurer's employee or agent, as an employee of the insurer's
agent or in any other capacity.
(2) For the purposes of section 132 (5) (c) of this Act, an insurer ought to know something
only if —
(a) an employee or agent of the insurer knows it, and ought reasonably to have
passed on the relevant information to an individual mentioned in subsection
(1); or
(b) the relevant information is held by the insurer and is readily available to an
individual mentioned in subsection (1).
(3) For the purposes of section 132 (5) (d) of this Act, an insurer is presumed to know
things which —
(a) are common knowledge; and
(b) an insurer offering insurance of the class in question to insured in the field
of activity in question would reasonably be expected to know in the
ordinary course of business.
135. (1) For the purposes of sections 132-134 of this Act, references to an individual's Knowledge:
knowledge include not only actual knowledge, but also matters which the individual general
reasonably and strongly suspected, and of which the individual would have had
knowledge but for deliberately refraining from confirming them or enquiring about
them.
(2) Nothing in this Part affects the operation of any rule of law according to which
knowledge of a fraud perpetrated by an individual ("F") either on the insured or on
the insurer is not to be attributed to the insured or to the insurer (respectively), where
the fraud is on the —
(a) insured, F is any of the individuals mentioned in section 133 (2) (b) or (3)
of this Act; or
(b) insurer, F is any of the individuals mentioned in section 134 (1) of this Act.
136. (1) A fair presentation need not be contained in only one document or oral presentation. Supplementary
(2) The term "circumstance" includes any communication made to, or information
received by the insured.
(3) A circumstance or representation is material if it would influence the judgment of a
prudent insurer in determining whether to take the risk and, if so, on what terms.
(4) Examples of things which may be material circumstances are —
(a) special or unusual facts relating to the risk;
(b) any particular concerns which warranted the insured to seek insurance cover
for the risk; and
(c) anything which those concerned with the class of insurance and field of
activity in question would generally understand as being something that is
be dealt with in a fair presentation of risks of the type in question.
(5) A material representation is substantially correct if a prudent insurer would not
consider the difference between what is represented and what is actually correct to be
material.
(6) A representation may be withdrawn or corrected before the contract of insurance is
entered into.
137. (1) The insurer has a remedy against the insured for a breach of the duty of fair Remedies for
presentation only if the insurer shows that, but for the breach, the insurer would — breach
(a) not have entered into the contract of insurance at all; or
(b) have done so only on different terms.
(2) A breach for which the insurer has a remedy against the insured is referred to in this
Act as a "qualifying breach".
(3) A qualifying breach is—
(a) either deliberate or reckless; or
(b) neither deliberate nor reckless.
(4) A qualifying breach is deliberate or reckless if the insured —
(a) knew that it was in breach of the duty of fair presentation; or
(b) did not care whether or not it was in breach of that duty.
(5) It is for the insurer to show that a qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless.
138. (1) Any rule of law permitting a party to a contract of insurance to avoid the contract on Good faith
the ground that the utmost good faith has not been observed by the other party is
abolished.
(2) Any rule of law to the effect that a contract of insurance is a contract based on the
utmost good faith is modified to the extent required by the provisions of this Part.
139. (1) A representation is material which would influence the judgment of a prudent insurer Representation
in fixing the premium or determining whether he will take the risk. pending
negotiation of
contract
(2) A representation may be either a representation as to a matter of fact, or as to a matter
of expectation or belief.
(3) A representation as to a matter of fact is true, if it is substantially correct, that is to say,
if the difference between what is represented and what is actually correct would not
be considered material by a prudent insurer.
(4) A representation as to a matter of expectation or belief is true, if it is made in good
faith.
(5) A representation may be withdrawn or corrected before the contract is concluded.
(6) Whether a particular representation is material or not, it is in each case, a question of
fact.
140. A contract of marine insurance shall be deemed to be concluded when the proposal of the When contract
insured is accepted by the insurer, whether the policy is then issued or not, and, for the deemed to be
concluded
purpose of showing when the proposal was accepted, reference may be made to the slip
or covering note or other customary memorandum of the contract.
141. (1) Subject to the provisions of any statute, a contract of marine insurance shall not be Contract to be
admissible in evidence unless it is embodied in a marine policy in accordance with the embodied in a
policy
form in the First Schedule to this Act or to the like effect.
First Schedule
(2) The policy may be executed and issued either at the time when the contract is
concluded, or afterwards, and subject to the provisions of this Part and unless the
context of the policy otherwise requires, the terms and expressions mentioned in the
Second Schedule
Second Schedule to this Act shall be construed as having the scope and meaning in
that Schedule assigned to them.
142. A marine policy shall specify the name of the insured, or of some person who effects the Name of insured
insurance on his behalf. to be specified in
policy document
143. (1) A marine policy shall be signed by or on behalf of the insurer, or if the insurer is a Signature of
corporation, the corporate seal may be sufficient. insurer
(2) Where a policy is subscribed by or on behalf of two or more insurers, each
subscription, unless the contrary be expressed, shall constitute a distinct contract with
the assured.
(3) Nothing in this section shall be construed as requiring the subscription of a corporation
to be under seal.
144. (1) The subject matter insured shall be designated in a marine policy with reasonable Designation of
certainty, but the nature and extent of the interest of the insured in the subject matter subject matter
insured need not be specified in the policy.
(2) Where the policy designates the subject matter insured in general terms, it shall be
construed to apply to the interest intended by the assured to be covered.
(3) In the application of this section, regard shall be had to any usage regulating the
designation of the subject matter insured.
145. (1) A floating policy is a policy which describes the insurance in general terms and leaves Floating policy
the name of the ship or ships and other particulars to be defined by subsequent by ship or ships
declaration.
(2) The subsequent declaration or declarations may be made by endorsement on the policy
or in other customary manner.
(3) Unless the policy otherwise provides, the declaration shall be made in the order of
dispatch or shipment, and in the case of goods, they shall comprise all consignments
within the terms of the policy, and the value of the goods or other property shall be
honestly stated, but any omission or erroneous declaration may be rectified even after
loss or arrival:
Provided that the omission or declaration was made in good faith.
(4) Unless the policy otherwise provides, where a declaration of value is not made until
after notice of loss or arrival, the policy shall be treated as an unvalued policy as
regards the subject matter of that declaration.
146. (1) Where two or more policies are effected by or on behalf of the insured on the same Double insurance
adventure and interest or any part of it, and the sums insured exceed the indemnity
allowed by this Part, the insured is said is to be over- insured by double insurance.
(2) Where the insured is over-insured by double insurance —
(a) the insured, unless the policy otherwise provides, may claim payment from
the insurers in such order as he thinks fit, provided that he shall not be
entitled to receive any sum in excess of the indemnity allowed by this Part;
(b) where the policy under which the insured claims is a valued policy, the
insured shall give credit as against the valuation for any sum received by
him under any other policy without regard to the actual value of the subject
matter insured;
(c) where the policy under which the insured claims is an unvalued policy, he
shall give credit, as against the full insurable value, for any sum received
by him under any other policy; and
(d) where the insured receives any sum in excess of the indemnity allowed by
this Part, he shall be deemed to hold such sum in trust for the insurers,
according to their right of contribution among themselves.
147. (1) Any rule of law that breach of a warranty, express or implied, in a contract of insurance Breach of
results in the discharge of the insurer's liability under the contract is abolished. warranty
(2) An insurer has no liability under a contract of insurance in respect of any loss
occurring, or attributable to something happening, after a warranty, express or
implied, in the contract has been breached but before the breach has been remedied.
(3) Subsection (2) shall not apply if —
(a) because of a change of circumstances, the warranty ceases to be applicable
to the circumstances of the contract;
(b) compliance with the warranty is rendered unlawful by any subsequent law;
or
(c) the insurer waives the breach of warranty.
(4) Subsection (2) shall not affect the liability of the insurer in respect of losses occurring,
or attributable to something happening —
(a) before the breach of warranty; or
(b) if the breach can be remedied, after it has been remedied.
(5) For the purposes of this section, a breach of warranty is to be taken as remedied —
(a) in a case falling within subsection (6), if the risk to which the warranty
relates later becomes essentially the same as that originally contemplated
by the parties; or
(b) in any other case, if the insured ceases to be in breach of the warranty.
(6) A case falls within this subsection if —
(a) the warranty in question requires that by an ascertainable time something is
to be done (or not done), or a condition is to be fulfilled, or something is (or
is not) to be the case; and
(b) that requirement is not complied with.
148. An express warranty — Express
warranties
(a) may be in any form of words from which the intention to warrant is to be
inferred;
(b) shall be included in or written upon the policy, or be contained in some
document incorporated by reference into the policy; and
(c) shall not exclude an implied warranty, unless it is inconsistent.
149. (1) Where insurable property, whether ship or goods, is expressly warranted neutral, there Warranty of
is an implied condition that the property shall have a neutral character at the neutrality
commencement of the risk, and if the insured can control the matter, its neutral
character shall be preserved during the risk.
(2) Where a ship is expressly warranted "neutral", there is also an implied condition that,
if the insured can control the matter, she shall be properly documented, that is to say,
that she shall carry the necessary papers to establish her neutrality, and that she shall
not falsify or suppress her papers or use simulated papers and where any loss occurs
through breach of this condition, the insurer may avoid the contract.
150. There is no implied warranty as to the nationality of a ship, or that her nationality shall No implied
not be changed during the risk. warranty of
nationality
151. Where the subject matter insured is warranted "well" or "in good safety" on a particular Warranty of
day, it is sufficient if it be safe at any time during that day. good safety
152. (1) In a voyage policy, there is an implied warranty that, at the commencement of the Warranty of
voyage, the ship shall be seaworthy for the purpose of the particular adventure insured. seaworthiness of
ship
(2) Where the policy attaches while the ship is in port, there is also an implied warranty
that she shall, at the commencement of the risk, be reasonably fit to encounter the
ordinary perils of the port.
(3) Where the policy relates to a voyage which is performed in different stages, during
which the ship requires different kinds of or further preparation or equipment, there is
an implied warranty that, at the commencement of each stage, the ship is seaworthy
in respect of such preparation or equipment for the purposes of that stage.
(4) A ship is deemed to be seaworthy when she is reasonably fit in all respects to encounter
the ordinary perils of the seas of the adventure insured.
(5) In a time policy, there is no implied warranty that a ship shall be seaworthy at any
stage of the adventure, but where, with the privity of the insured, the ship is sent to
sea in an unseaworthy state, the insurer is not liable for any loss attributable to
unseaworthiness.
153. (1) In a policy on goods or other moveables, there is no implied warranty that the goods No implied
or movable are seaworthy. warranty that
goods are
seaworthy
(2) In voyage policy on goods or other moveables, there is an implied warranty that, at
the commencement of the voyage, the ship is not only seaworthy as a ship, but also
that she is reasonably fit to carry the goods or other moveables to the destination
contemplated by the policy.
154. There is an implied warranty that the adventure insured is a lawful one, that the insured Warranty of
can control the matter, and the adventure shall be carried out in a lawful manner. legality
155. (1) Where the subject matter is insured by a voyage policy "at and from" or "from" a Implied
particular place, it is not necessary that the ship to be at that place when the contract condition as to
commencement
is concluded, but there is an implied condition that the adventure shall be commenced
of risk
within a reasonable time, and if the adventure be not so commenced, the insurer may
avoid the contract.
(2) The implied condition may be negative by showing that the delay was caused by
circumstances known to the insurer before the contract was concluded, or by showing
that he waived the condition.
156. Where the place of departure is specified by the policy, and the ship instead of sailing Alteration of port
from that place sails from any other place, the risk does not attach. of departure
157. Where the destination is specified in the policy, and the ship, instead of sailing for that Sailing for
destination, sails for any other destination, the risk shall not attach. different
destination
158. (1) Where, after the commencement of the risk, the destination of the ship is voluntarily Change of
changed from the destination contemplated by the policy, there is said to be a change voyage
of voyage.
(2) Unless the policy otherwise provides, where there is a change of voyage, the insurer
is discharged from liability as from the time of change, that is to say, as from the time
when the determination to change it is manifested, and it is immaterial that the ship
may not in fact have left the course of voyage contemplated by the policy when the
loss occurs.
159. (1) Where a ship, without lawful excuse, deviates from the voyage contemplated by the Deviation
policy, the insurer is discharged from liability as from the time of deviation, and it is
immaterial that the ship may have regained her route before any loss occurs.
(2) Lawful excuse in subsection (1) shall include any reason for deviation from voyage
that may be prevalent in seafaring in the circumstance or any reason beyond the
control of the policy holder.
(3) There is a deviation from the voyage contemplated by the policy where the course of
the voyage is —
(a) specifically designated by the policy and that course is departed from; or
(b) not specifically designated by the policy but the usual and customary course
is departed from.
(4) The intention to deviate is immaterial and if there is a deviation in fact the insurer is
discharged from his liability under the contract.
160. (1) Where several ports of discharge are specified by the policy, the ship may proceed to Several ports of
all or any of them, but, in the absence of any usage or sufficient cause to the contrary, discharge
the ship shall proceed to all or any of them as she goes to, in the order designated by
the policy, and if she does not, there is a deviation.
(2) Where the policy is to "ports of discharge", within a given area, which are not named,
the ship shall, in the absence of any usage or sufficient cause to the contrary, proceed
to them, or any of them as she goes to, in their geographical order, and if she does not,
there is a deviation.
161. In the case of a voyage policy, the adventure insured shall be prosecuted throughout its Discharge from
course with reasonable dispatch, and, if without lawful excuse it is not so prosecuted, the liability due to
unreasonable
insurer shall be discharged from liability as from the time when the delay became
delay in voyage
unreasonable.
162. (1) Deviation or delay in prosecuting the voyage contemplated by the policy is excused Excuses for
— deviation or
delay
(a) where authorised by any special term in the policy;
(b) where caused by circumstances beyond the control of the master and his
employer;
(c) where reasonably necessary in order to comply with an express or implied
warranty;
(d) where reasonably necessary for the safety of the ship or subject matter
insured;
(e) for the purpose of saving human life, or aiding a ship in distress where
human life may be in danger;
(f) where reasonably necessary for the purpose of obtaining medical or
surgical aid for any person on board the ship; or
(g) where caused by the barratrous conduct of the master or crew, if barratry
is one of the perils insured against.
(2) When the cause excusing the deviation or delay ceases to operate, the ship shall resume
her course, and prosecute her voyage with reasonable dispatch.
163. (1) A marine policy shall be assignable either before or after loss, unless it contains terms Assignability of
expressly prohibiting assignment. policy
(2) Where a marine policy has been assigned so as to transfer the beneficial interest in
such policy, the assignee of the policy shall be entitled to sue in his own name, and
the defendant shall be entitled to make any defence arising out of the contract which
he would have been entitled to make if the action had been brought in the name of the
person by or on behalf of whom the policy was effected.
(3) A marine policy may be assigned by endorsement on it or in other customary manner.
164. (1) Where the insured has parted with, transferred or lost his interest in the subject matter Insured who has
insured, and has not, before or at the time of doing so, expressly or impliedly agreed no interest shall
not assign
to assign the policy, any subsequent assignment of the policy shall be inoperative.
(2) Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to affect the assignment of a policy
after loss.
165. Where a broker effects a marine policy on behalf of the insured, an acknowledgement of Effect of
receipt of the premium on the policy is, in the absence of fraud, conclusive evidence of acknowledgment
of premium on
subsistence of the policy as between the insurer and the insured, but not as between the
policy
insurer and the broker.
166. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, and unless the policy otherwise provides, the Specifically
insurer shall only be liable for any loss proximately caused by a peril insured against, covered and
excluded losses
but, subject, as aforesaid, he shall not be liable for any loss which is not proximately
caused by a peril insured against.
(2) The insurer —
(a) shall not be liable for any loss attributable to the willful misconduct of the
insured, but unless the policy otherwise provides, he shall be liable for any
loss proximately caused by a peril insured against, even though the loss
would not have happened but for the misconduct or negligence of the master
or crew;
(b) on ship or goods shall not be liable for any loss proximately caused by delay,
whether the delay is caused by a peril insured against, unless the policy
otherwise provides; and
(c) shall not be liable for ordinary wear and tear, ordinary leakage and breakage,
inherent vice or nature of the subject matter insured, or for any loss
proximately caused by rats or vermin, or for any injury to machinery not
proximately caused by maritime perils, unless the policy otherwise
provides.
167. (1) A loss may be total or partial. Total and partial
loss
(2) A total loss may be either an actual total loss or a constructive total loss and any loss
other than a total loss, is a partial loss.
(3) Unless a different intention appears from the terms of a policy, an insurance against
total loss includes both constructive total loss and actual total loss.
(4) Where the insured brings an action for a total loss and the evidence proves only a
partial loss, he may, unless the policy otherwise provides, recover a partial loss.
(5) Where goods reach their destination in specie, but by reason of obliteration of marks,
or otherwise, they are incapable of identifying the loss, if any, is partial, and not total.
168. (1) Where the subject matter insured is destroyed, or so damaged as to cease to be a thing Actual total loss
of the kind insured, or where the insured is irretrievably deprived of it, there is an
actual total loss.
(2) In the case of an actual total loss, no notice of abandonment need be given.
169. Where the ship concerned in the adventure is missing and after the lapse of a reasonable Missing ship
time no news of her has been received, an actual total loss may be presumed.
170. Where, by a peril insured against, the voyage is interrupted at an intermediate port or Effect of
place, under such circumstances as, apart from any special stipulation in the contract of transshipment
affreightment to justify the master in landing and re-shipping the goods or other
moveables, or in transshipping them, and sending them on to their destination, the
liability of the insurer continues, notwithstanding the landing or transshipment.
171. (1) Subject to any express provision in a policy, there is a constructive total loss where Constructive
the subject matter insured is reasonably abandoned on account of its actual total loss total loss
appearing to be unavoidable, or the preservation of the subject matter from actual total
loss would entail costs exceeding its value when the costs are incurred
(2) There is a constructive total loss where —
(a) the insured is deprived of the possession of his ship or goods by a peril
insured against and —
(i) it is unlikely that he may recover the ship or goods as the case may
be, or
(ii) the cost of recovering the ship or goods as the case may be, would
exceed their value when recovered;
(b) in the case of damage to a ship, she is so damaged by a peril insured against
that the cost of repairing the damage would exceed the value of the ship
when repaired, and for the purposes of this paragraph, in estimating the cost
of repairs, no deduction is to be made in respect of general average
contributions to those repairs payable by other interests, but account is to
be taken of the expenses of future salvage operations, and of any future
general average contributions to which the ship would be liable if repaired;
or
(c) in the case of damage to goods, the cost of repairing the damage and
forwarding the goods to their destination would exceed their value on
arrival.
172. Where there is a constructive total loss, the insured may either treat the loss as a partial Treatment of
loss, or abandon the subject matter insured to the insurer and treat the loss as if it were constructive total
loss
an actual total loss.
173. (1) Subject to the provisions of this section, where the insured elects to abandon the Notice of
subject matter insured to the insurer, he shall give notice of abandonment, and if he abandonment
fails to give notice of abandonment, the loss shall only be treated as a partial loss.
(2) Notice of abandonment may be given in writing or by word of mouth, or partly in
writing and partly by word of mouth and may be given in terms which indicate the
intention of the insured to abandon his insured interest in the subject matter insured
unconditionally to the insurer.
(3) Notice of abandonment shall be given with reasonable diligence after the receipt of
reliable information of the loss, but where the information is of a doubtful character,
the insured is entitled to a reasonable time to make inquiry.
(4) Where notice of abandonment is properly given, the rights of the insured shall not be
prejudiced by the fact that the insurer refuses to accept the abandonment.
(5) The acceptance of abandonment may be either express or implied from the conduct of
the insurer, but the mere silence of the insurer after notice shall not be construed as an
acceptance.
(6) Where notice of abandonment is accepted, the abandonment is irrevocable, and the
acceptance of the notice shall be construed as conclusive admission of liability for the
loss and the sufficiency of the notice.
(7) Notice of abandonment is unnecessary where, at the time when the insured receives
the information of the loss, there would be no possibility of benefit to the insurer if
notice were given to the insurer.
(8) The insured shall not be required to give notice of abandonment to the insurer if –
(a) the loss is an actual loss; or
(b) notice of abandonment is waived by the insurer.
(9) Where an insurer has re-insured his risk, no notice of abandonment need be given by
him.
174. (1) Where there is a valid acceptance of an abandonment, the insurer shall be entitled to Effect of
take over the interest of the insured in whatever may remain of the subject matter abandonment
insured, and all proprietary rights incidental to it.
(2) Upon the abandonment of a ship, the insurer shall be entitled to any freight in course
of being earned, and which is earned by her subsequent to the casualty causing the
loss, less the expenses of earning it incurred after the casualty, and, where the ship is
carrying the owner's goods, the insurer shall be entitled to a reasonable remuneration
for the carriage of them subsequent to the casualty causing the loss.
175. (1) A partial loss may be a particular average loss, a general average loss, salvage charges Partial losses
or particular charges.
(2) A particular average loss is a partial loss of the subject matter insured, caused by a
peril insured against, and which is not a general average loss.
(3) Expenses incurred by or on behalf of the insured for the safety or preservation of the
subject matter insured, other than general average and salvage charges, are called
particular charges, and particular charges are not included in particular average.
176. (1) Subject to any express provision in the policy, salvage charges incurred in preventing Salvage charges
a loss by perils insured against may be recovered as a loss by those perils.
(2) For the purposes of this section, "salvage charges" means the charges recoverable
under maritime law by a salvor independently of any contract but does not include
expenses for services in the nature of salvage which are recoverable, if properly
incurred, as particular charges of general average loss, as the case may be, where
rendered by the effect of abandonment.
177. (1) A general average loss is a loss caused by or directly consequential on a general General average
average act and includes a general average expenditure as well as a general average loss
sacrifice.
(2) There is a general average act where any extraordinary sacrifice or expenditure is
voluntarily and reasonably made or incurred in time of peril for the purpose of
preserving the property imperiled in the common adventure.
(3) Where there is a general average loss, the party on whom it falls shall be entitled,
subject to the conditions imposed by maritime law, to a rateable contribution, called
a general average contribution, from the other parties interested.
(4) Subject to any express provision in the policy, where the insured has incurred a general
average expenditure, he may recover from the insurer in respect of the proportion of
the loss which falls upon him, and, in the case of general average sacrifice, he may
recover from the insurer in respect of the whole loss without having enforced his right
of contribution from the other parties liable to contribute.
(5) Subject to any express provision in the policy, where the insured has paid, or is liable
to pay, a general average contribution in respect of the subject matter insured, he may
recover from the insurer.
(6) In the absence of express stipulation, the insurer shall not be liable for any general
average loss or contribution where the loss was not incurred for the purpose of
avoiding, or in connection with the avoidance of, a peril insured against.
(7) Where ship, freight, and cargo, or any two of those interests, are owned by the same
insured, the liability of the insurer in respect of general average losses or contributions
shall be determined as if those subjects were owned by different persons.
178. (1) Where there is a loss recoverable under the policy, the insurer, or each insurer if there Proportional
are more insurers than one, shall be liable for such proportion of the measure of liability of
insurer for loss
indemnity as the amount his subscription bears to the value fixed by the policy in the
case of a valued policy, or to the insurable value in the case of an unvalued policy.
(2) For the purposes of this section "measure of indemnity" means the sum which the
insured may recover in respect of a loss on a policy by which he is insured, being in
the case of a valued policy, the full extent of the value fixed by the policy, and in the
case of an unvalued policy, the full extent of the insurable value.
179. Subject to the provisions of this Part and to any express provision in the policy, where Total loss
there is a total loss of the subject matter insured, where the policy is —
(a) a valued policy, the measure of indemnity shall be the sum fixed by the
policy; and
(b) an unvalued policy, the measure of indemnity shall be the insurable value
of the subject matter insured.
180. Where a ship is damaged, but is not totally lost, the measure of indemnity, subject to any Partial loss of a
express provision in the policy, shall be as provided herein where the ship — ship
(a) has been repaired, the insured shall be entitled to the reasonable cost of the
repairs, less the customary deductions, but not exceeding the sum insured
in respect of any one casualty;
(b) had been only partially repaired, the insured shall be entitled to the
reasonable cost of such repairs, computed as in paragraph (a), and the
reasonable depreciation, if any, arising from the unrepaired damage,
provided that the aggregate amount shall not exceed the cost of repairing
the whole damage, computed as in paragraph (a); and
(c) had not been repaired and had not been sold in her damaged state during the
risk, the insured shall be entitled to be indemnified for the reasonable
depreciation arising from the unrepaired damage, but not exceeding the
reasonable cost of repairing such damage, computed in paragraph (a).
181. Subject to any express provisions in the policy, where there is a partial loss of freight, the Partial loss of
measure of indemnity shall be such proportion of the sum fixed by the policy in the case freight
of a valued policy, or of the insurable value in the case of an unvalued policy, as the
proportion of freight lost by the insured bears to the whole freight at the risk of the insured
under the policy.
182. Where there is a partial loss of goods, merchandise or other moveables, the measure of Partial loss of
indemnity, subject to any express provision in the policy, shall be as provided in it where goods,
merchandise and
—
other moveables
(a) part of the goods, merchandise or other moveables insured by a valued
policy is totally lost, the measure of indemnity shall be such proportion of
the sum fixed by the policy as the insurable value of the part lost bears to
the insurable value of the whole, ascertained as in the case of an unvalued
policy;
(b) part of the goods, merchandise, or other moveables insured by an unvalued
policy is totally lost, the measure of indemnity shall be the insurable value
of the part lost, ascertained as in case of total loss; and
(c) the whole or any part of the goods or merchandise insured has been delivered
damaged at its destination, the measure of indemnity shall be such
proportion of the sum fixed by the policy in the case of a valued policy, or
of the insurable value in the case of an unvalued policy, as the difference
between the gross sound and damaged values at the place of arrival bears to
the gross sound value.
183. (1) Where different species of property are insured under a single valuation, the valuation Apportionment
shall be apportioned over the different species in proportion to their respective of valuation
insurable values, as in the case of an unvalued policy, and for the purposes of this
subsection, the insured value of any part of a species is such proportion of the total
insured value of the same as the insurable value of the part bears to the insurable
value of the whole, ascertained in both cases as provided by this Part.
(2) Where a valuation is to be apportioned, and particulars of the prime cost of each
separate species, quality, or description of goods are not ascertainable, the division of
the valuation may be made over the net arrived sound values of the different species,
qualities, or descriptions of goods.
184. (1) Subject to any express provision in the policy, the measure of indemnity in respect of General average
a general average contribution that an insured has paid or is liable to pay shall be as contribution and
salvage charges
provided in it where —
(a) the insured has paid, or is liable for, any general average contribution, the
measure of indemnity shall be the full amount of such contribution, if the
subject matter liable to contribution is insured for its full contributory value,
but, where such subject matter is not insured for its full contributory value
or if only part of it is insured, the indemnity payable by the insurer shall be
reduced in proportion to the under insurance; and
(b) there has been a particular average loss which constitutes a deduction from
the contributory value, and for which the insurer is liable, that amount shall
be deducted from the insured value in order to ascertain what the insurer is
liable to contribute.
(2) Where the insurer is liable for salvage charges, the extent of his liability shall be
determined on the applicable principle.
185. Where the insured has effected an insurance in express terms against any liability to a Liabilities to
third party, the measure of indemnity, subject to any express provision in the policy, is third parties
the amount paid or payable by him to such third-party in respect of such liability.
186. (1) Where there has been a loss in respect of any subject matter not expressly provided General
for in the provisions of this Part, the measure of indemnity shall be ascertained, as provisions as to
measure of
nearly as may be, in accordance with those provisions applicable to the particular case.
indemnity
(2) Nothing in this Part relating to the measure of indemnity shall affect the rules relating
to double insurance or prohibit the insurer from disproving interest wholly or in part,
or from showing that at the time of the loss the whole or any part of the subject matter
insured was not at risk under the policy.
187. (1) Where the subject matter insured is warranted free from particular average, the insured Particular
shall not recover for a loss of part other than a loss incurred by a general average average
warranties
sacrifice, unless the contract contained in the policy is apportionable, but, if the
contract is apportionable, the insured may recover for a total loss of any apportionable
part.
(2) Where the subject matter insured is warranted free from particular average, either
wholly or under a certain percentage, the insurer shall nevertheless be liable for
salvage charges, and the insurer shall also be liable for particular charges for and other
expenses of averting a loss insured against, where properly incurred under the
provisions of a suing and laboring clause to the like effect as set out in the prescribed
form, if contained in the policy.
(3) Unless the policy otherwise provides, where the subject matter insured is warranted
free from particular average under a specified percentage, a general average loss shall
not be added to a particular average loss to make up the specified percentage.
(4) For the purpose of ascertaining whether the specified percentage has been reached,
regard shall be had only to the actual loss suffered by the subject matter insured, and
particular charges and the expenses of and incidental to ascertaining and proving the
loss shall be excluded.
188. (1) Unless the policy otherwise provides, and subject to the provisions of this Part, the Successive losses
insurer shall be liable for successive losses, even though the total amount of such
losses may exceed the sum insured.
(2) Where, under the same policy, a partial loss, which has not been repaired or otherwise
made good, is followed by a total loss, the assured may recover in respect only of the
total loss.
(3) Nothing in this section shall affect the liability of an insurer under a suing and
labouring clause in the prescribed form or to the like effect if contained in the policy.
189. (1) Where the policy contains a suing and labouring clause in the prescribed form or to Suing and
the like effect, the agreement entered into shall be deemed to be supplementary to the labouring clause
contract of insurance, and the insured may recover from the insurer any expenses
properly incurred under the clause, notwithstanding that the insurer may have paid for
a total loss, or that the subject matter may have been warranted free from particular
average, either wholly or under a certain percentage.
(2) General average losses and contributions and salvage charges, as defined by this Part,
shall not be recoverable under the suing and labouring clause.
(3) Expenses incurred for the purpose of averting or diminishing any loss not covered by
the policy is not recoverable under the suing and labouring clause.
(4) The insured and his agents, in all cases, shall take such measures as may be reasonable
for the purpose of averting or minimising a loss.
190. (1) Where the insured is over insured by double insurance, each insurer shall be bound, Right of
as between himself and the other insurers, to contribute rateably to the loss in contribution
proportion to the amount for which he is liable under his contract.
(2) Where any insurer pays more than his proportion of the loss, he shall be entitled to
maintain an action for contribution against the other insurers and be entitled to the like
remedies as a surety who has paid more than his proportion of the debt.
(3) Where there is double insurance and one of the insurance policies contains another
insurance clause that excludes or limits an insurer's liability to contribute rateably to
the loss, that clause shall be void.
191. Where the insured is insured for an amount less than the insurable value or, in the case Effect of under
of a valued policy, for an amount less than the policy valuation, he shall be deemed to be insurance
his own insurer in respect of the uninsured balance.
192. Where the premium or a proportionate part of it is, by this Part, declared to be returnable, Enforcement of
where — return of
premium
(a) already paid, it may be recovered by the insured from the insurer; and
(b) unpaid, it may be retained by the insured or his agent.
193. Where the policy contains a stipulation for the return of the premium, or a proportionate Return by
part of it, on the happening of a certain event, and that event happens, the premium, or, agreement
as the case may be, the proportionate part of it, shall be returned to the insured.
194. (1) Where the consideration for the payment of the premium totally fails, and there has Return for failure
been no fraud or illegality on the part of the insured or his agents, the premium shall of consideration
be returned to the insured.
(2) Where the consideration for the payment of the premium is apportionable and
there is total failure of any apportionable part of the consideration, a
proportionate part of the premium shall, under the like conditions, be returned
to the insured.
(3) Where —
(a) a policy is void, or is avoided by the insurer as from the commencement of
the risk, the premium shall be returnable, provided that there has been no
fraud or illegality on the part of the insured, but if the risk is not
apportionable, and has once attached, the premium shall not be returnable;
(b) the subject matter insured, or part of it, has never been imperiled, premium,
or, as the case may be, a proportionate part of it, is returnable:
Provided that where the subject matter has been insured "lost or not lost"
and has arrived in safety at the time when the contract is concluded, the
premium is not returnable unless, at such time, the insurer knew of the safe
arrival where the insured has;
(c) no insurable interest throughout the currency of the risk, the premium shall
be returnable, but nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to apply to a
policy effected by way of gaming or wagering;
(d) a defeasible interest which is terminated during the currency of the risk, the
premium shall not be returnable; and
(e) over-insured under an unvalued policy, a proportionate part of the premium
shall be returnable.
(4) Subject to the provisions of this section, where the insured has over-insured by double
insurance, a proportionate part of the several premiums shall be returnable:
Provided that, if the policies are effected at different times, and any earlier policy has
at any time borne the entire risk, or if a claim has been paid on the policy in respect
of the full sum insured, no premium shall be returnable in respect of that policy, and
when the double insurance is effected knowingly by the insured, no premium shall be
returnable.
195. Where a contract of marine insurance is, in good faith, effected by one person on behalf Ratification by
of another, the person on whose behalf it is effected may ratify the contract even after he the insured
is aware of a loss.
196. (1) Where any right, duty, or liability would arise under a contract of marine insurance Implied
by implication of law, it may be negative or varied by express agreement, or by usage, obligations
varied by
if the usage is such as to bind both parties to the contract.
agreement or
usage
(2) The provisions of this section shall extend to any right, duty, or liability declared by
this Part which may be lawfully modified by agreement.
197. Where there is a duly stamped policy, reference may be made to the slip or covering note, Slip as evidence
in any legal proceeding.
198. (1) If any person — Gambling on
loss by maritime
perils prohibited
(a) effects a contract of marine insurance without having any bona fide interest,
direct or indirect, either in the safe arrival of the ship in relation to which
the contract is made or in the safety or preservation of the subject matter
insured, or a bona fide expectation of acquiring such an interest; or
(b) in the employment of the owner of a ship, not being a part owner of the ship,
effects a contract of marine insurance in relation to the ship and the contract
is made —
(i) "interest or no interest",
(ii) "without further proof of interest than the policy itself",
(iii) "without benefit or salvage to the insurer", or
(iv) subject to any other like term,
the contract shall be deemed to be a contract by way of gambling on loss by
marine perils, and the person effecting the contract shall be guilty of an offence
and liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
a fine not exceeding ₦250,000 and, in either case, to forfeit any money he may
have received under the contract.
(2) Any broker or other person through whom, and any insurer with whom, any such
contract is effected shall be guilty of an offence and liable, on conviction, to the like
penalties, if he acted knowing that the contract was by way of gambling on loss by
maritime perils within the meaning of this section.
(3) Proceedings shall not be instituted under this section against a person, other than a
person in the employment of the owner of the ship in relation to which the contract
was made, alleged to have effected a contract by way of gambling on loss by marine
perils until an opportunity has been afforded him of showing that the contract was not
such a contract, and any information given by that person for that purpose shall not be
admissible in evidence against him in any prosecution under this section.
(4) Where proceedings under this section are taken against any person, other than a person
in the employment of the owner of the ship in relation to which the contract was made,
for effecting such a contract and the contract was made —
(a) "interest or no interest",
(b) "without further proof of interest than the policy itself",
(c) "without benefit of salvage to the insurer", or
(d) subject to any other like term,
the contract shall be deemed to be a contract by way of gambling on loss by
maritime perils unless the contrary is proved.
(5) For the purpose of giving jurisdiction under this section, every offence shall be deemed
to have been committed either in the place in which the same actually was committed
or in any place in which the offender may be.
(6) For the purposes of this section, the expression "owner" includes charterer.
199. (1) In this Part — Interpretation of
this Part
"action" includes "counter-claim" and "set-off";
"freight" includes the profit derivable by a ship owner from the employment of his
ship to carry his own goods or moveables, as well as freight payable by a third-
party, but does not include passage money;
"gross proceeds" means the actual price obtained at a sale where all charges on sale
are paid by the sellers;
"moveables" means any moveable tangible property other than the ship and includes
money, valuable securities and other documents;
"policy" means a marine policy;
"prescribed form" means the form of policy in the First Schedule or such other policy
as may be approved by the Commission;
"unvalued policy" means a policy which does not specify the value of the subject
matter insured, but, subject to the limit of the sum insured, leaves the insurable
value to be subsequently ascertained, in the manner specified in section 145 of this
Act;
"valued policy" means a policy which specifies the agreed value of the subject
matter insured, subject to the provisions of this Part, and in the absence of fraud,
the value fixed by the policy is, as between the insurer and the insured, conclusive
of the insurable value of the subject intended to be insured, whether the loss is total
or partial, and unless the policy otherwise provides, the value fixed by the policy is
not conclusive for the purposes of determining whether there has been a
constructive total loss; and
"voyage policy" is a policy where the contract is to ensure the subject matter "at and
from", or from one place to another or others.
(2) For the purposes of this Act, where there is a reference to —
(a) "reasonable time",
(b) "reasonable premium", or
(c) "reasonable diligence",
the question of what is reasonable shall be a question of fact.
200. (1) A person shall not commence or carry-on Takaful or micro-insurance or related Regulations for
business unless licensed by the Commission. the operation of
specialised
insurance
(2) The Commission shall have power to issue regulations for the operation of specialised
institutions
insurance institutions including Takaful, micro- insurance or as may be required to
ensure adequate protection of the policy holders and the insuring public.
201. (1) A person shall not commence or carry-on web, internet or electronic based insurance Operation of web
or related business unless licensed by the Commission. aggregators
(2) The Commission shall issue regulations for web, internet or related electronic based
insurance business in Nigeria.
202. (1) All insurance institutions shall adopt policies stating their commitments to — Anti-money
laundering,
combating
(a) comply with Know Your Customer (KYC)Anti- Money Laundering (AML),
financing of
Combatting Financing of Terrorism (CFT) and Combatting Proliferation of
terrorism and
Weapons of Mass Destruction (CPF) obligations under subsisting laws, proliferation of
regulations and regulatory directives; and weapons of mass
destruction
(b) implement internal control measures to prevent any transaction relating to
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act or any other enactment, the
Commission shall make regulations, guidelines and policies to fight against money
laundering, and combat the financing of terrorism and the proliferation of weapons
of mass destruction for insurance institutions, in accordance with international best
practices and standards.
(3) The Commission shall liaise with relevant bodies in other countries with similar
objectives for the purposes of sharing information and relevant data that would aid
the fight against money laundering, and combat the financing of terrorism and the
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
(4) The Commission shall have power to impose administrative sanctions against
insurance institutions for non-compliance with the provisions of this section.
203. (1) An insurance in respect of usage of a container to deliver goods from the Nigerian Insurance of
ports to any destination within Nigeria shall be made with an insurer registered under container
this Act.
(2) No person shall be required to make any form of deposit in respect of usage of a
container to deliver goods from the Nigerian ports to any destination within Nigeria.
(3) An importer, broker or agent shall effect an appropriate insurance cover in respect of
the container to deliver the goods, to be issued by a licenced insurer registered in
Nigeria under this Act to protect the interest of the ship liners or owners.
(4) Any person who acts otherwise than in compliance with the provisions of this section
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least ₦1,000,000.
204. (1) Except as otherwise exempted under this section, a person shall not place insurance Contract with
or reinsurance business with a foreign insurer or reinsurer in respect of any life, asset, foreign insurer
and reinsurer
interest or other properties in Nigeria classified as domestic insurance or reinsurance
business unless with a company licensed under this Act.
(2) In this section, "domestic insurance or reinsurance business" includes —
(a) fire insurance and reinsurance,
(b) motor insurance and reinsurance,
(c) liability insurance and reinsurance,
(d) life insurance and reinsurance,
(e) accident insurance and reinsurance,
(f) health insurance and reinsurance,
(g) engineering insurance and reinsurance,
(h) energy (oil, gas and power) insurance and reinsurance,
(i) aviation insurance and reinsurance, and
(j) such other insurance and reinsurance business as the Commission may,
determine in regulations made by it.
(3) For all classes of insurance specified in subsection (2), local capacity shall be fully
utilised before they are insured or reinsured abroad, subject to prior approval by the
Commission.
(4) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1), is liable to a penalty in the
sum not more than five times the total premium involved.
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), where a person satisfies the
Commission that by reason of exceptional nature of the risk in or emanating from
Nigeria or any other exceptional circumstances, such risk shall not be placed with an
insurer or reinsurer registered under this Act, the Commission may in writing permit
such person to effect such insurance or reinsurance with an insurer or reinsurer
licensed outside Nigeria.
(6) Where an insurer is satisfied that a risk is required to be reinsured abroad, no in-person
engagement shall be required with the reinsurer by the insured or reinsured provided
the insurer is able to demonstrate that there is adequate reinsurance of the risk in
accordance with the reinsurance programme submitted to the Commission at the
beginning of every year.
(7) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, a foreign or international health
insurance provider shall obtain the prior approval of the Commission before
transacting any health insurance related business that emanates from Nigeria and any
person who contravenes the provisions of this subsection shall be liable to a penalty
of a sum not less than the total premium involved.
205. (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act and the contract of insurance, a third- Contracts of
party beneficiary under a contract of non-life insurance has a right to recover from general
insurance-
the insurer the amount of any loss suffered by the third-party beneficiary within the
entitlements of
limit insured in the contract even though the third-party beneficiary is not a party to
third-party
the contract. beneficiaries
(2) Subject to the contract, the third-party beneficiary —
(a) has the same obligations to the insurer in relation to his claim as he would
have had if he were the insured; and
(b) may discharge the insured's obligations in relation to the loss.
(3) The insurer has the same defences to an action under this section as the insurer would
have in an action by the insured, including defences relating to the conduct of the
insured, whether the conduct occurred before or after the contract was entered into.
206. (1) An insurance operator shall establish a system of internal control over its financial Internal control
reporting and security of its assets and it shall be the responsibility of the board of system of
insurance
directors to ensure the integrity of the operator's financial controls and reporting.
operators
(2) The board of directors of an insurance operator shall report on the effectiveness of the
operator's internal control systems in its annual report.
(3) In this section, "internal control" means policies, procedures and practices put in place
by management to ensure safety of assets, accuracy of financial records and reports,
achievement of corporate objectives and compliance with laws and regulations.
207. (1) Where an insurer reasonably believes that a fraudulent insurance conduct is being, or Duty of insurers
has been committed, the insurer shall furnish the Commission, on a form to be to report
fraudulent
prescribed by the Commission, all information relating to such conduct as the
insurance
Commission may require.
conduct
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) does not prevent or prohibit a person from voluntarily
disclosing any information concerning insurance fraud to any law enforcement agency
other than the Commission.
(3) An insurer who contravenes the provisions of this section is liable to the penalty of a
sum not exceeding ₦100,000.
208. (1) The Commission shall have power to make regulations as to the form and contents of Advertisement
insurance advertisement.
(2) No insurance operator shall issue, publish or cause to be issued or published on its
behalf, any form of insurance advertisement without the prior approval of the
Commission.
(3) Where the approval or disapproval of the Commission is not communicated to an
insurance operator within the timeframe indicated in the Service Charter, the
insurance operator shall proceed with the use of the insurance advertisement provided
it has satisfied itself that the forms and contents required by the Commission has been
followed.
(4) The insurance operator shall file returns to the Commission within 14 days of
commencement of use of the insurance advertisement and the returns shall
demonstrate to the Commission that the insurance operator has complied with any
regulation issued by the Commission as to the form and contents of insurance
advertisement.
(5) Any insurance operator that fails to comply with the provisions of this section shall be
liable to a penalty as may be stipulated by the Commission.
(6) Where the Commission, having reviewed the return submitted by an insurance
operator, is satisfied that an insurance operator has not complied with its regulations
as to the form and contents of insurance advertisement, the Commission shall have
the power to request for amendments to or withdrawal of the insurance advertisement.
(7) In this section —
(a) "advertisement" includes every form of advertising, whether in a
publication, display of notice, circulars, other documents, an exhibition of
photographs or cinematography, films, electronic media; and
(b) "insurance advertisement" means an advertisement inviting persons to enter
into or offer to enter into contracts of insurance, and an advertisement which
contains information calculated to lead directly to persons entering into or
offering such contracts shall be treated as an advertisement inviting them to
do so.
209. A person who, by any statement, promise or forecast which he knows or reasonably Misleading
believes to be misleading, false or deceptive, or by any dishonest concealment of material statements
facts, or by the reckless making either dishonestly or otherwise, of any statement induces
another person to enter into or offer to enter into any contract of insurance with an
insurance company commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a penalty of at
least ₦500,000 or imprisonment for a term of two years or both.
210. (1) Subject to the provisions of Parts X and XI of this Act, in every case where a claim is Claims
made in writing by the insured or any other party entitled to claim under an insurance settlement
policy, the insurer shall, except in the case of denial of liability, have all claims settled
within the number of days as contained in the Service Charter or as prescribed by the
Commission.
(2) Where any claim remains unpaid as provided in subsection (1), the insured may
request the Commission to effect the payment from the statutory deposit of the insurer
and the Commission shall have power to effect such payment.
(3) Except for special risk cases, all admitted claims shall be settled within 60 days of
notification.
(4) All special risk claims shall be admitted or denied within 60 days of notification.
(5) All admitted special risk claims shall be settled within 60 days of issuance of
Discharge Voucher.
(6) Where the insurer does not accept liability or in the case of incomplete claims
documentation, he shall deliver a statement in writing stating the reason for declining
such liability to the person making the claim or his authorised representative or stating
the incomplete claims documentation not later than 60 days from the date on which
the person delivered his claim to the insurer, or such period of time as may be
prescribed in regulations made by the Commission.
(7) An insurer who contravenes the provisions of this section is liable to a penalty of
₦500,000 and shall pay the claim amount with a monthly compound interest at the
prevailing bank rate from the date he ought to have settled the claim within 60 days
from the date of notification.
(8) Notwithstanding anything contained in the contract of insurance, in all cases of
insurances made compulsory under this Act, an insurer shall be liable to compensate
the insured or third-party for damages suffered as a result of the insurer's unreasonable
delay in settling a claim as may be awarded by a court of competent jurisdiction or the
dispute resolution panel set up under this Act.
(9) All disputes arising out of any insurance contract shall be referred to the Federal High
Cap. N53, LFN
Court or insurance tribunal established under the National Insurance Commission Act,
2004
as the case may be.
211. (1) An insurer shall not grant loans to a non- executive director of the insurer directly or Restriction on
indirectly except a loan — loans to directors
(a) on life policies issued to such person by the insurer; or
(b) normally forming part of the terms and conditions of service of such person.
(2) An insurer who grants, and a non-executive director who receives any loan other than
as provided for in subsection (1) is liable to a penalty of a sum two times the amount
of the loan.
(3) An employee of the insurance operator shall not engage in any business transaction or
trade in any manner whatsoever with the insurance operator as a counterpart or with
the subsidiary in relation to insurance funds or assets.
212. (1) There is established the Insurance Policyholders Protection Fund (in this Act referred Insurance
to as “the Fund”) into which shall be paid — Policyholder
Protection Fund
(a) 0.25% of the gross premium income of every insurer and reinsurer; and
(b) 0.25% of the balance standing in the Security and Insurance Development
Fund as at 31 December of the preceding year after meeting all financial
Cap. N53, LFN
obligations stipulated for the Fund by the National Insurance Commission
2004
Act for the time being in effect.
(2) The Fund shall be used for the purpose of resolving distress and insolvencies of
licensed insurers or reinsurer and payment of claims admitted by or allowed against a
licensed insurer or reinsurer which remains unpaid by reason of insolvency or
cancellation of the licence of the insurer or reinsurer.
(3) The amount due from every insurer or reinsurer under subsection (1) shall be paid
annually to the Fund and at such time as may be prescribed by the Commission.
(4) The Fund shall be managed and administered independent of the funds of the
Commission by a competent fund manager appointed by the Commission and the
Fund shall not be co-mingled with the funds of the Commission and shall only be in
licensed deposit money banks or other recognised financial institutions as may be
prescribed by the Commission.
(5) There is established for the Fund a committee (in this Act referred to as "the Insurance
Policyholders Protection Fund Committee”) responsible for overseeing the
management of the Fund and the Insurance Policyholders Protection Fund Committee
shall consist of —
(a) a chairman to be appointed by Commission;
(b) two representatives of the Commission;
(c) two representatives of the Nigerian insurance industry; and
(d) the fund manager as a Secretary of the Committee.
(6) The Fund shall be disbursed as loan and shall be repaid to the Fund by the insurer or
reinsurer after its recovery from insolvency or distress or as first line charge payable
by an appointed receiver or liquidator, upon cancellation of licence or certificate of
registration, on the realisation of assets of the insurer or reinsurer.
(7) The Commission may require an insurer or reinsurer to make additional contribution
to the Fund where the Fund becomes inadequate for meeting admitted claims which
remains unpaid by reason of insolvency or cancellation of licence of the insurer or
reinsurer and this additional contribution made shall be net of future contributions that
may be due from the insurer or reinsurer.
(8) An insurer or reinsurer shall report to the Commission inappropriate or imprudent
underwriting, operational, market conduct or corporate governance practices likely to
give rise to distress or insolvency of any insurer or reinsurer, not later than five days
from the date it became aware of the practice.
(9) The Commission shall immediately investigate such report and, upon confirming the
allegation, take regulatory action against the affected insurer or reinsurer in
accordance with extant insurance laws and regulations.
(10) An insurer or reinsurer who becomes aware of such imprudent practices and fails to
report to the Commission shall be liable to regulatory sanction as may be determined
by the Commission.
(11) The Commission shall issue guidelines for the efficient administration, management,
investment, disbursement and recovery of loan or interest from beneficiaries or
realised assets.
(12) The Insurance Policyholders Protection Fund Committee shall maintain and submit
to the Commission the audited annual financial statement of the Fund not later than
30 June of the succeeding year.
(13) Failure of an insurer or reinsurer to contribute to the Fund shall constitute a ground
for the cancellation of the licence or certificate of registration of the insurer or
reinsurer.
(14) Failure of an insurer or reinsurer to remit or pay back the loan or accrued interest due
to the Fund shall constitute a ground for cancellation of the licence or certificate of
the insurer or reinsurer.
(15) The annual contribution payable by insurers, reinsurers and the Commission shall
continue to be made to the Fund until an amount not less than 10% of the prior year
total exposure of the Nigerian insurance industry has been accumulated in the Fund
or such amount as may be considered adequate by the Commission.
213. (1) A person, other than an insurance operator, required to furnish returns or information Offences as to
to the Commission under this Act who fails to furnish such returns information, returns
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a penalty of at least ₦250,000 for
every day of default.
(2) A person who, in purported compliance with subsection (1), knowingly or recklessly
—
(a) makes a statement in the returns; or
(b) gives information which is false, commits an offence and is liable on
conviction to a penalty of at least ₦250,000.
(3) Where a ministry, department or agency of Government, is liable under subsection (1)
or (2), the chief accounting officer shall also be liable for gross misconduct and
punishable according to the terms of the extant public service rules.
214. (1) Where an original document is to be produced to the Commission, it shall be Production of
accompanied by two duly certified true copies of the document for retention by the documents
Commission, unless the Commission dispenses with their production.
(2) Where only a copy of a document is produced, the Commission may require
production of further evidence to account for the absence of the original and if it is
satisfied, two copies shall be prepared, and shall, when duly certified on behalf of the
insurance operator be retained by the Commission, unless the Commission dispenses
with their production.
(3) For the purpose of this section, a document shall be deemed to be duly signed or
certified where it is signed —
(a) on behalf of the insurance operator by the chief executive officer of such
insurance operator in Nigeria, and issued under the seal of the insurance
operator; or
(b) by some persons approved by the Commission.
215. (1) Where the insurer pays for a total loss, either of the whole, or in the case of goods of Right of
any apportionable part, of the subject matter insured, he shall become entitled to take subrogation
over the interest of the insured in whatever may remain of the subject matter paid for,
and shall be subrogated to the rights and remedies of the insured in and in respect of
that subject matter as from the time of the casualty causing the loss.
(2) Subject to subsection (1), where the insurer pays for a partial loss, he shall acquire no
title to the subject matter insured, or such part of it as may remain, but shall be
subrogated to the rights and remedies of the assured in and in respect of the subject
matter insured to the extent of such partial loss and from the time of the casualty
causing loss in so far as the assured has been indemnified according to this Part, by
such payment for the loss.
216. (1) All insurers and reinsurers underwriting special risk business shall commit a Human resource
reasonable sum of their net premium or as may be prescribed by the Commission training for
special risk
from special risk businesses to human resource training and human resource training
business
for special risk business.
(2) An insurer or reinsurer who contravenes the provision of subsection (1) shall be liable
to a penalty to be determined by the Commission.
217. (1) Service of process in any legal proceeding against an insurance operator, registered Service of
or licensed under this Act, may be effected at the principal office of such insurance process
operator.
(2) Where the principal office of the insurance operator in Nigeria has ceased to exist,
process in any legal proceeding against such insurance operator, may be served at the
office of the Commissioner of insurance and such service shall be deemed to be
service on the insurance operator.
218. (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Commission may in writing, Penalty for non-
suspend an insurance operator from conducting a new or further insurance business compliance
for a period not exceeding 12 months, where the insurance operator fails to pay any
penalty or penalty imposed under this Act or regulations made within 60 days from
the date of imposition.
(2) The 60 days mentioned under subsection (1) shall not start counting until any appeal
process has been concluded.
(3) Where the insurance operator fails to pay a part of the penalty or penalty referred to
under subsection (1), the Commission may cancel the certificate of registration of the
insurance operator.
(4) Any person who is found guilty of an offence under this Act for which no specific fine
is provided shall, on conviction, be liable in the case of a —
(a) first conviction, to a fine of at least ₦250,000 or imprisonment for a
maximum term of six months or both; and
(b) second or subsequent conviction to a fine of at least ₦500,000 or
imprisonment for a maximum term of 12 months or both.
219. Where fees are to be prescribed under this Act or are specified herein, such fees shall be Fees
prescribed, or as the case may be, varied by the Commission.
220. The provisions of this Act are without prejudice to the application of the Companies and Application of
Allied Matters Act and any other enactment applicable to insurance institutions under the provisions of
the Companies
this Act which are companies registered under that Act, however, where any of the
and Allied
provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act or any enactment is inconsistent
Matters Act
with any provision of this Act only as related to the insurance operations of that company,
the provision of this Act shall prevail to the extent of that inconsistency. Act No. 3, 2020
221. (1) Without prejudice to the power of the Attorney General of the Federation, under the Compounding of
Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to continue or discontinue offences and
imposition of
criminal proceedings against any person in any court of law, the Commission may
criminal
compound any offence punishable under this Act by accepting such sums of money
penalties for
as it deems fit not exceeding the amount of the maximum penalty to which that person infractions
would have been liable if he had been convicted of the offence.
Cap. C23 LFN,
2004
(2) The Commission may, in lieu of prosecution under any section of this Act providing
for offences impose a penalty of at least ₦250,000 or as may be determined by the
Commission.
222. (1) Where an insurance operator or any other person commits an offence under this Act, Recovery of
the Commission shall, in addition to the imposition of the penalty specified for the sums involved in
the commission
offence, make an order for the payment of the amount involved in the commission of
of offences
the offence.
(2) Where the Commission makes an order under subsection (1) and the person fails to
comply within the time specified in the order, the Commission shall make an order to
levy execution on such of the property of the person as is sufficient to cover the
amount involved.
(3) Any amount paid or recovered under this section shall be used to compensate any
person who, the Commission is satisfied, suffered in any way as a result of the
insurance transaction connected with the offence.
(4) Where the amount referred to in subsection (3) is not fully utilised for the purpose
specified in that subsection, the balance shall be paid into the Security and Insurance
Development Fund established under the National Insurance Commission Act. Cap. N53 LFN,
2004
223. (1) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a body corporate, firm or Offences by
other association of individuals, a person who at the time of the commission of the body corporate
offence was an officer or was purporting to act in such capacity severally commits
that offence and is liable to be prosecuted and punished for the offence in like manner
as if he had himself committed the offence, unless he proves that the act or omission
constituting the offence took place without his knowledge, consent or connivance.
(2) In this section and in the other provisions of this Act, "officer" in relation to —
(a) a body corporate, means a director, chief executive, manager and company
secretary; and
(b) the firm, includes a partner and other senior officers of the firm.
224. (1) An offence under this Act shall, subject to the Rules of the Court, be tried in the Jurisdiction and
Federal High Court or a tribunal established for this purpose. prosecution
(2) Without prejudice to the powers of the Attorney-General of the Federation in criminal
proceedings, the Commission shall have powers to prosecute offenders under this Act.
225. Any person who willfully obstructs, interferes with, assaults or resists a public officer in Obstruction of
the discharge of his lawful duties under this Act or aids, invites, or abets any other person public officers
to obstruct, interfere with, assault or resist any such officer, commits an offence and is
liable on conviction to a penalty of at least ₦1,000,000 or imprisonment for a term not
more than one year or both.
226. (1) A public officer commits an offence if, in the discharge of his lawful duties under this Misrepresentatio
Act, he knowingly or recklessly presents to another public officer, who is to take a n by public
officers
decision or do any other act in relation to it, information which is false in any material
particular, unless he proves that such information was supplied to him by another
person and that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of the
offence as he ought to have exercised, having regard to the nature of his functions in
that capacity and in all the circumstances.
(2) A public officer who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) is liable to
disciplinary rules for public officers and other guidelines or policy issued by the
Commission.
227. (1) The Federal Government, the Commission or any officer of the Government or Protection
Commission shall not be subject to any action, claim or demand by or liability to any against adverse
claims
person in respect of anything done or omitted to be done in good faith under or in
execution of, or in connection with the execution or intended execution of any power
conferred upon the Government, the Commission or such officer, by this Act or the Cap. N53, LFN
National Insurance Commission Act, provided that no public officer shall be 2004
absolved under this subsection if the public officer contravenes the code of conduct
for public officers.
(2) For the purpose of this section, the Minister or any officer duly acting on his behalf
shall be deemed to be an officer of the Federal Government and the Commissioner,
and the Deputy Commissioners of the Commission or other employee shall be deemed
to be an officer of the Commission.
228. The Commission may make regulations generally for the purpose of implementing and Power to make
enforcing the provisions of this Act. regulations
229. (1) The — Repeal and
savings provision
(a) Insurance Act, Cap. I17, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004,
(b) Marine Insurance Act, Cap. M2, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004,
(c) Motor Vehicles (Third-Party Insurance) Act, Cap. M22, Laws of the
Federation of Nigeria, 2004,
(d) National Insurance Corporation of Nigeria Act, Cap. N54, Laws of the
Federation of Nigeria, 2004, and
(e) Nigeria Reinsurance Corporation Act, Cap. N131, Laws of the Federation
of Nigeria, 2004,
are repealed.
(2) Without prejudice to section 6 of the Interpretation Act, the repeal of the Acts specified
Cap. I23 LFN,
in subsection (1), shall not affect anything done under the Acts.
2004
(3) Every order, requirement, certificate, notice, direction, decision, authorisation,
consent, application, request or thing made, issued, given or done under any of the
Acts repealed by this Act shall, if in effect at the commencement of this Act, continue
to be in effect and have effect as if made, issued, given or done under the
corresponding provisions of this Act.
230. (1) The provisions of this Act shall apply notwithstanding the provisions of the — Application to
other laws
(a) National Housing Funds Act; and
Cap. N45, LFN
2004
(b) other applicable laws where they relate to insurance business.
(2) Where any of the provisions of the Act mentioned in subsection (1) or any other law
or enactment is inconsistent with any of the provisions of this Act, the provisions of
this Act shall prevail.
231. In this Act — Interpretation
"a firm" includes a partner and any other officer of a firm;
"a person" means any individual, corporation, association, and other legal entity
engaged in the business of insurance, including agents, insurance operators, brokers
and loss adjusters;
"any other association of individuals" includes a person concerned in the
management of the affairs of such association;
"Board" means the Governing Board of the National Insurance Commission of
Nigeria;
"Brown Card" means the ECOWAS Brown Card within the meaning of the Protocol;
"credit life insurance" means a type of life insurance policy where the policyholder
is a credit provider, and the insurer is obligated to meet the insurance requirements
in case of the death of the debtor, who is the person insured under the policy, and
the policy may cover one or more lives insured, and all of them shall be debtors of
the credit provider.
"Civil Aviation Act" means the Civil Aviation Act, No. 30, 2022 or any re-enactment
or modification for the time being in effect;
"Commission" means the National Insurance Commission;
"Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Insurance;
“health insurance business” means health insurance business not covered under the
National Health Insurance Act, 2022 or any amendments or replacement to it.
"intermediaries" include loss adjusters, assessors, brokers and agents;
"insurance operator" means an insurer, reinsurer, insurance broker, insurance agent,
loss adjuster and insurance pool, as the case may be;
"insurer" includes re-insurer;
"Institute" means the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria;
"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for matters relating to
finance or any Minister charged with insurance matters;
"principal officer" means the chief executive officer of an insurance institution,
including directors, heads of each technical department, head of human resources
and administration, and head of accounts of insurers and in the case of partnership,
each partner and senior officers or as the Commission may determine by regulation;
"Protocol" means the Protocol on Establishment of ECOWAS Brown Card Scheme
Relating to Third-Party Liability Insurance;
"property" means real or personal property of every description, including money,
whether tangible or intangible, and includes an interest in any such real or personal
property;
"Regulations" means regulations, guidelines and code of conduct; and
“Service Charter” means a document indicating timelines, fees, and other features of
the products and services to be offered by the Commission to the stakeholders in the
insurance industry to be published by the Commission and made available to the
public in accordance with section 5(4) of the Act.
232. This Act may be cited as the Nigerian Insurance Industry Reform Act, 2025. Citation
SCHEDULES
First Schedule
Section 141 (1)
and 199 (1)
FORM OF POLICY
Be it Known that ………………………………………as well in own name as for and in
the name and names of all and every other person or persons to whom the same doth may,
or shall appertain, in part or in all doth make assurance and cause and them, and every of
them, to be insured lost or not lost, at and from …………………………………
Upon any kind of goods and merchandise, and also upon the body, tackle, apparel,
ordnance, munition, artillery, boat, and other furniture, of and in the good ship or vessel
called the …….........………………….....……whereof is master under God, for this
present voyage …………………………………………………. or whosoever else shall go
for master in the said ship, or by whatsoever other name or names the said ship, or the
master thereof, is or shall be named or called; beginning the adventure upon the said goods
and merchandises from the loading thereof aboard the said ship,
……………………………………………………… upon the said ship, etc. and so shall
continue and endure, during her abode there, upon the said ship, etc. and further, until the
said ship with all her ordnance, tackle, apparel, etc. and goods and merchandises
whatsoever shall be arrived at……. upon the said ship, etc. until she hath moored at anchor
twenty-four hours in good safety; and upon the goods and merchandises, until the same be
there discharged and safely landed. And it shall be lawful for the said ship, etc. in this
voyage, to proceed and sail to and touch and stay at any ports or places whatsoever without
prejudice to this insurance.
The said ship, etc. goods and merchandises, etc. for so much as concerns the insured by
agreement between the insured and the insurers in this policy, are and shall be valued at
……………………………….......................…………………………………………….
Touching the adventures and perils which we the insurers are contented to bear and do take
upon us in this voyage: they are of the seas, men of war, fire, enemies, pirates, rovers,
thieves, jettisons, letters of mart and countermart, surprisals, takings at sea, arrests,
restraints, and detainments of all kings, princes, and people, of what nation, condition, or
quality so ever, barratry of the master and marines, and of all other perils, losses and
misfortunes, that have or shall come to the hurt, detriment, or damage of the said goods
and merchandises, and ship, etc., or any part thereof. And in case of any loss or misfortune
it shall be lawful to the insured, their factors, servants and assigns, sue, labour and travel
for, in and about the defence, safeguards, and recovery of the said goods and merchandises,
and ship, etc., or any part thereof, without prejudice to this insurance; to the charges
whereof we, the insurers, will contribute each one according to the rate and quantity of his
sum herein assured. And it is especially declared and agreed that no acts of the insurer or
insured in recovering, saving, or preserving the property insured shall be considered as a
waiver, or acceptance of abandonment. And it is agreed by us, the insurers, that this writing
or policy of assurance shall be of as much force and effect as the surest writing or policy
of assurance heretofore made in any place in Nigeria. And so we, the insurers , are
contended, and do hereby promise and bind ourselves, each one for his own part, our heirs,
executors, and goods to the insured, their executors, administrators, and assigns, for the
true performance of the premises, confessing ourselves paid the consideration due unto us
for this assurance by the assured, at and after the rate of
…………………………………………………………………………………. ………….
In Witness whereof we, the insurers, have subscribed our names and sums assured in
…………………………………………………………………………………………..
N.B.: Corn, fish, salt, fruit, flour and seed are warranted free from average, unless general,
or the ship be stranded; and sugar, tobacco, hemp, flax, hides and skins are warranted free
from average, under ten naira per cent, and all other goods, also the ship and freight, are
warranted free from average, under six naira per cent unless general, or the ship be
stranded.
Second Schedule
Section 9 (1) and 141(2)
RULES FOR CONSTRUCTION OF POLICY
1. Where the subject matter is insured "lost or not lost", and the loss has occurred before
the contract is concluded, the risk attaches, unless at such time the insured was aware of
the loss, and the insurer was not.
2. Where the subject matter is insured "from" a particular place, the risk does not attach
until the ship starts on the voyage insured.
3. Where —
(a) a ship is insured "at and from" a particular place, and she is at that place in
good safety when the contract is concluded, the risk attaches immediately;
(b) the ship is not at that place when the contract is concluded, the risk attaches
as soon as she arrives there in good safety, and, unless the policy otherwise
provides, it is immaterial that she is covered by another policy for a specified
time after arrival;
(c) chartered freight is insured "at and from" a particular place, and the ship is at
that place in good safety when the contract is concluded the risk attaches
immediately, if she be not there when the contract is concluded, the risk
attaches as soon as she arrives there in good safety; and
(d) freight other than chartered freight, is payable without special conditions and
is insured "at and from" a particular place, the risk attaches pro rata as the
goods or merchandise are shipped, provided that if there be cargo in
readiness which belongs to the ship owner, or which some other person has
contracted with him to ship, the risk attaches as soon as the ship is ready to
receive such cargo.
4. Where goods or other moveables are insured "from the loading thereof", the risk does
not attach until such goods or moveables are actually on board, and the insurer is not
liable for them while in transit from the shore to ship.
5. Where the risk on goods or other moveables continues until they are "safely landed",
they shall be landed in the customary manner and within a reasonable time after arrival
at the port of discharge, and where they are not so landed the risk ceases.
6. In the absence of any further license or usage, the liberty to touch and say "at any port
or place whatsoever" does not authorise the ship to depart from the course of her voyage
from the port of departure to the port of destination.
7. The term "perils of the seas" refers only to fortuitous accidents or casualties of the seas
and does not include the ordinary action of the winds and waves.
8. The term "pirates" includes passengers who mutiny, and riots who attack the ship from
the shore.
9. The term "thieves" does not cover clandestine theft or a theft committed by any one of
the ship company, whether crew or passengers.
10. The term "arrests, etc. of kings, princes, and people" refers to political or executive
acts, and does not include a loss caused by riot or by ordinary judicial process.
11. The term "barratry" includes every wrongful act willfully committed by the master or
crew to the prejudice of the owner, or, as the case may be, the charterer.
12. The term "all other perils" includes only perils similar in kind to the perils specifically
mentioned in the policy.
13. The term "average unless general" means a partial loss of the subject matter insured
other than a general average loss and does not include "particular charges".
14. Where the ship is stranded, the insurer is liable for the excepted losses, although the
loss is not attributable to the stranding, provided that when the stranding takes place
the risk has attached and, if the policy be on goods that the damaged goods are on
board.
15. The term "ship" includes the hull, materials and outfit, stores and provisions for the
officers and crew, and in the case of vessels engaged in a special trade, the ordinary
fittings requisite for the trade, and also, in the case of a steamship, the machinery,
boilers, coals and engine stores, if owned by the assured.
16. The term "freight" includes the profit derivable by a ship owner from the employment
of his ship to carry his own goods or moveables, as well as freight payable by a third
party, but does not include passage money.
17. The term "goods" means goods in the nature of merchandise and does not include
personal effects or provisions and stores for use on board.
18. In the absence of any usage to the contrary, deck cargo and living animals shall be
insured specifically, and not under the general denomination of goods.
