Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 31
Extraordinary
Federal Republic of Nigeria
Official Gazette
No. 19 Lagos - 2nd May, 2025. Vol. 112
Government Notice No. 16
The following is published as supplement to this Gazette :
Act No. Short Title Page
2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025 .. .. .. .. .. .. A33-225
Printed and Published by The Federal Government Printer, Lagos, Nigeria
FGP 17/52025/250
Annual Subscription from 1st January, 2025 is Local : N100,000.00 Overseas : N131,000.00 [Surface
Mail] N150,000.00 [Second Class Air Mail]. Present issue N4,000 per copy. Subscribers who wish to obtain
Gazette after 1st January should apply to the Federal Government Printer, Lagos for amended Subscriptions.
A 32 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 33
INVESTMENTS AND SECURITIES ACT, 2025
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
Section :
PART I — ESTABLISHMENT, OBJECTIVES, FUNCTIONS, AND POWERS OF THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
1. Establishment of the Securities and Exchange Commission
2. Head office of the Commission
3. Objectives, functions and powers of the Commission
PART II — ESTABLISHMENT OF THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE COMMISSION
4. Composition of the Board of the Commission
5. Appointment and tenure of members of the Board
6. Duties of the Board
7. Director-General and full time Commissioners to be fully devoted to the
Commission
8. Management of the Commission
9. Disqualification, cessation of appointment and resignation
10. Remuneration and allowances of members of the Board
11. Meetings of the Board
12. Disclosure by Board members
PART IIII — STAFF OF THE COMMISSION
13. Appointment of the Secretary and other staff of the Commission
14. Remuneration of the Secretary and other staff of the Commission
15. Duties of the Secretary
16. Service in the Commission to be pensionable
PART IV — FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
17. Fund of the Commission
18. Application of Fund of the Commission
19. Reserve account
20. Power to accept gifts
21. Penalties and fees to be retained and utilised by the Commission
22. Borrowing by the Commission
23. Investments by the Commission
24. Annual estimates, account and audit
25. Annual report
A 34 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
PART V — REGISTRATION AND REGULATION OF SECURITIES EXCHANGES, FINANCIAL
MARKET INFRASTRUCTURES AND OTHER SELF REGULATORY ORGANISATIONS
A — SECURITIES EXCHANGES
26. Registration of a securities exchange
27. Categories of securities exchanges
28. Conditions for registration of securities exchanges
29. Appointment and removal of chief executive and principal officers of a
securities exchange
30. Responsibilities of a securities exchange
31. Securities exchange to maintain proper books of account
32. Approval of amendments to listing rules
33. Securities exchange to give notice of disciplinary actions
34. Review of disciplinary actions taken by a securities exchange
35. Power to issue directives to a securities exchange
36. Prohibition of trading in particular securities
37. Revocation of certificate of a securities exchange
38. Listing of a securities exchange or an exchange holding company on
securities exchange
39. Responsibilities of exchange holding company
40. Disposal and acquisition of assets
B — FINANCIAL MARKET INFRASTRUCTURES
41. Establishment and operation of a financial market infrastructure
42. Registration of financial market infrastructures
43. Protection of investors in a financial market infrastructure
44. Financial market infrastructure rules
C — PROVISIONS RELATING TO INSOLVENCY OF FINANCIAL MARKET
INFRASTRUCTURES, AND OTHER MATTERS
45. Modification of insolvency law rules
46. Proceedings of a financial market infrastructure to take precedence over
insolvency procedures
47. Disapplication of conflicting orders under insolvency laws
48. Net sum payable upon compliance with default proceedings
49. Duty to provide assistance
50. Disapplication of avoidances, fraudulent preference, and priority of
payments
51. Protection of certain actions of financial market infrastructure
52. Terms used in this Part
D — SETTLEMENT FINALITY OF TRANSFER ORDERS
53. Modification of insolvency laws
54. Protection of transfer orders and systems
55. Limitation of protection
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 35
56. No retroactive effect on proceedings
57. Terms used in this Part
E — MATTERS RELATING TO INSOLVENCY LAWS IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS
58. Insolvency laws in other jurisdictions
F — SELF-REGULATORY ORGANISATIONS AND TRADE ASSOCIATIONS
59. Registration of a self-regulatory organisation
60. Duties of a registered self-regulatory organisation
PART VI — REGISTRATION AND REGULATION OF CAPITAL MARKET OPERATORS
61. Registration of capital market operators
62. Appointment and removal of chief executive and principal officers of a
capital market operator
63. Accounts to be kept by capital market operator
64. Maintenance of separate accounts and payment into certain trust
accounts
65. Penalty for withdrawing money from trust account without authority
66. Money in trust account not available for personal use
67. Claims and lien not affected
68. Right to copies of book entries of transactions and to inspect contract
notes
69. Register of securities
70. Particulars of register
71. Production of register
72. Extracts of register
PART VII — INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS
73. Designation of staff of the Commission for supervision of all regulated
entities and securities exchanges
74. Routine examination and report
75. Special examination
76. Failing regulated entity
77. Control of failing regulated entity
78. Management of failing regulated entity
79. Control of regulated entity with lost paid up capital
80. Power of examiners in relation to other persons
81. Application to the Federal High Court for winding up
PART VIII — MANAGEMENT OF SYSTEMIC RISK
82. Request for information in respect of systemic risk
83. Power of the Commission to issue directive for management of
systemic risk
84. Arrangements with other supervisory authorities
85. Terms used in this Part
A 36 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
PART IX — REGULATION OF SECURITIES
A — REGISTRATION OF SECURITIES
86. Registration of securities to be issued under this Act
87. Electronic and other means of issuing and transferring securities
B — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OF PUBLIC COMPANIES
88. Filing of annual and periodic reports with the Commission
89. System of internal control of public companies
90. Auditors of public companies to register with the Commission
91. Duty of auditor to report on internal controls of public companies
92. Penalties for non- compliance with sections 90 and 91
C — TREATMENT OF UNCLAIMED DIVIDENDS OF PUBLIC COMPANIES
93. Unclaimed dividends of public companies
D — GENERAL PROVISIONS
94. Contravention of this Part by a body corporate
E — INVITATIONS TO THE PUBLIC
95. Control of invitations to the public
96. Invitation to the public to deposit money
97. Meaning of invitation to the public
98. Offers for sale deemed to be made by an issuer
99. Form of application for shares to be issued with prospectus
100. Effective date of a prospectus
101. Contents of a prospectus
102. Exemption from application of provisions relating to prospectus in
certain cases
103. Prohibition of issuance or circulation of certain notices, circulars and
advertisements
104. Exemption certificate and effect
105. Expert’s statement on prospectus
106. Prospectus on invitation to the public to acquire or dispose of securities
107. General and restricted invitations to the public
108. Registration of prospectus
109. Contract in prospectus not to be varied without leave
110. Document of offer of securities to be deemed a prospectus
111. Interpretation as to prospectus
112. Form of statement in lieu of prospectus
113. Civil liability for misstatements in prospectus
114. Criminal liability for misstatement in prospectus
115. Allotment of securities
116. No allotment below minimum subscription
117. Application money to be held in trust until allotment
118. Action for rescission
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 37
119. Allotment of securities and dealing on securities exchange
120. Return of surplus money to subscribers
PART X — CONDUCT OF SECURITIES BUSINESS
121. Prohibition of cash transactions
122. Prohibition of transactions in non-dematerialised securities
123. Legal entity identifier
124. Securities dealer to issue contract note or transaction confirmation
125. Contents of contract note or transaction confirmation
126. Disclosure of certain interests in securities by securities dealers
127. Dealing as principal
128. Dealing by employees and associated persons of securities dealers
129. Securities dealers to give priority to client’s orders
130. Securities lending and margin requirements
131. Unauthorised sale or transfer of securities
PART XI — TRADING IN SECURITIES
132. False trading and market rigging transactions
133. False or misleading statements
134. Fraudulently inducing persons to deal in securities
135. Dissemination of illegal information
136. Prohibition of fraudulent means
137. Prohibition of dealing in securities by insiders
138. Actions not prohibited under section 137
139. Civil and criminal liability under this Part and authority to award bounty
to informant
PART XII — MERGERS, TAKE-OVERS AND CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING
140. Control of restructuring of public companies
141. Merger by amalgamation and other combination
142. Takeover rules and regulations
143. Compliance with code and rules
144. Authority to proceed with takeover
145. Arrangement for funds
146. No payment for loss of office
147. Liability for false or misleading statement
148. Action by Commission in cases of non-compliance
149. Terms used in this Part
PART XIII — COLLECTIVE INVESTMENTS SCHEMES
150. Meaning of collective investment scheme
151. Types of collective investment scheme
152. Principles for the administration of the scheme
153. Disclosure of information
154. Duties of managers of a scheme
A 38 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
155. Requirements for administration of a collective investment scheme
156. Prohibition of misleading names and actions
157. Authorisation of collective investment schemes
158. Registration of units or securities of a scheme
159. Alteration of trust deed, custodial agreement, or change of name of
scheme
160. Revocation of authorisation of a scheme
161. Approval of prospectus and other offer documents
162. Liability for material misstatement
163. Redemption of units or securities
164. Prohibition of certain transactions and profits
165. Liabilities of trustees and custodians under a scheme
166. Audit of accounts of a scheme and annual general meeting
167. Fair market price
168. Investment of a scheme fund
169. Misappropriation of clients’ funds
170. Investigation and inspection
171. Powers of the Commission after investigation
172. Cancellation or suspension of registration of a manager
173. Objection to misleading terms in a publication
174. Power of the Commission to request audit
175. Irregular or undesirable practices
176. Appointment and termination of appointment of trustee or custodian
177. Qualification and registration of trustee or custodian
178. Suspension or revocation of registration of a trustee or custodian
179. Duties of trustees or custodians
180. Status of assets
181. Liability of custodian for loss of assets
182. Appointment and removal of auditor
183. Duty of auditor to disclose irregularity or undesirable practice
184. Power to make regulations on the constitution and management of
collective investments scheme
185. Alteration of schemes and replacement of manager, trustee or custodian
186. Restriction of activities of managers
187. Publication of scheme particulars
188. Power of intervention
189. Issuance of directive or its revocation
190. Investment company
191. Real estate investment
192. Registration of real estate investment company
193. Foreign collective investment schemes
194. Appointment of inspectors
195. Treatment of collective investment schemes
196. Prohibited schemes
197. Terms used in this Part
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 39
PART XIV — INVESTOR PROTECTION FUND
198. Establishment of an investor protection fund
199. Objectives of investor protection fund
200. Composition and tenure of board of trustees
201. Removal from the board of trustees
202. Powers of the board of trustees
203. Money accruing to the investor protection fund
204. Fund to be kept in separate bank account
205. Payment out of the investor protection fund
206. Accounts of investor protection fund
207. Board of trustees may delegate functions
208. Minimum amount in investor protection fund
209. Protection of the investor protection fund
210. Levy to meet liabilities
211. Power of an exchange to make an advance to an investor protection
fund
212. Investment of the funds of an investor protection fund
213. Application of the funds of an investor protection fund
214. Claims against a license holder
215. Claims against an investor protection fund
216. Notice calling for claims against the investor protection fund
217. Power to settle claims
218. Form of order of the Tribunal
219. Power to require production of evidence
220. Subrogation
221. Application of insurance money
222. Penalty for contravention
223. Terms used in this Part
PART XV — COMMODITIES EXCHANGE AND WAREHOUSE RECEIPTS
A — COMMODITIES EXCHANGE
224. Establishment of commodities exchanges
225. Conditions for registration
226. Rules of commodities exchange
227. Commodities exchange to maintain proper books of account
228. Responsibilities of a commodities exchange
229. Appointment and removal of chief executive and principal officers of a
commodities exchange
230. Commodities exchange to give notice of disciplinary actions
231. Review of disciplinary actions taken by a commodities exchange
232. Oversight function on commodities exchanges
233. Power to issue directives to a commodities exchange
234. Prohibition of trading in particular contracts in commodities
235. Revocation of registration
A 40 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
236. Registration of commodity broker
237. Emergency powers
238. Prohibition of use of certain titles
239. Offences
B — WAREHOUSE RECEIPTS
240. Registration of warehouses
241. Revocation and suspension of warehouse registration
242. Insurance of warehouse and commodities
243. Inspection of warehouse by the Commission
244. Registration of collateral management company
245. Issuance of warehouse receipt
246. Warehouse receipt as evidence of proprietary rights
247. Form, standardisation and contents of warehouse receipt
248. Trading in warehouse receipts
249. Negotiable warehouse receipts
250. Obligation of a warehouse operator to deliver
251. Obligation to deliver commodities to persons with valid titles or right
252. Warehouse operator’s right to lien
253. Enforcement of lien
254. Loss of right of lien
255. Cancellation of warehouse receipt after the delivery of commodities
256. Delivery of commodities in parts
257. Altered warehouse receipts
258. Rights of purchasers of altered receipts
259. Rights derived from negotiation
260. Liability for wrongful delivery of commodities
261. Liability for wrongful description of commodities
262. Liability for loss or injury to commodities
263. Liability for issuance of receipts for commodities not received
264. Liability for false statement in a warehouse receipt
265. Liability for issuance of unmarked duplicate receipts
266. Liability for depositing commodities with defective title
267. Terms used in this Part
PART XVI — ISSUANCE OF SECURITIES
A — FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AGENCIES, STATES, LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
AND THEIR RESPECTIVE AGENCIES
268. Bodies to which this Part applies
269. Issue of registered bonds, promissory notes, general obligation debt
securities and revenue or project tied debt securities (project bonds)
270. Appointment of custodians
271. Restriction on raising of funds from the capital market
272. Loans to be charged upon revenue
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 41
273. Bodies to publish details of funds in the Federal Government Gazette or
other official document
274. Register of securities and appointment of Registrar
275. Appointment of issuing house
276. Dematerialised debt security
277. Entries in a bond register
278. Promissory notes
279. Manner and effect of endorsement
280. Rights of survivorship
281. Bonds
282. Appropriation and payment of interest
283. Appointment of trustees
284. Powers of trustees
285. Trustee as underwriter
286. Power to appoint new trustees
287. Waiver by trustees
288. Appropriation of revenue for sinking fund
289. Separate sinking fund
290. Investment of sinking fund
291. Cessation of contribution to sinking fund
292. Expenses to be paid out of sinking fund
293. Deficiency in fund to be charged upon revenue
294. Consolidation and subdivision
295. Indemnity bond
296. Immediate discharge in certain cases
297. Limitation of legal action
298. Summary procedure in special cases
299. Notice of trust not receivable except as provided
300. Exemption from stamp duties
301. Delegation of power
302. Inspection of register and documents
303. Power to make rules and regulations under this Part
304. Requirements of securities exchanges
305. Binding obligation on successive governments or bodies
306. Application of enactments
307. Offences, remedies and penalties
B — ISSUANCE OF DEBT SECURITIES BY BODY CORPORATE
AND SUPRANATIONAL BODIES
308. Issuance of debt securities subject to prior review and approval
309. Mismanagement or diversion of proceeds
310. Administrative sanctions
311. Cessation of office
312. The Commission may take action
313. Terms used in this Part
A 42 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
PART XVII — ESTABLISHMENT, JURISDICTION, AUTHORITY AND PROCEDURE
OF THE INVESTMENTS AND SECURITIES TRIBUNAL
314. Establishment of the Investments and Securities Tribunal
315. Composition of the Tribunal
316. Functions of the Minister
317. Vacancy in the office of the Tribunal
318. Constitution of the Tribunal
319. Term of office
320. Disqualification of members of the Tribunal
321. Resignation and removal
322. Salaries, allowances and other conditions of service of members of the
Tribunal
323. Filling up of vacancies
324. Chief Registrar of the Tribunal
325. Other staff of the Tribunal
326. Jurisdiction of the Tribunal
327. Fund of the Tribunal
328. Accounts and audit
329. Power to accept gifts
330. Application of the fund of the Tribunal
331. Actions against and appeals from decisions of the Commission
332. Powers and procedures of the Tribunal
333. Right to legal representation
334. Judgment of the Tribunal
335. Exclusion of proceedings
336. Appeal to the Court of Appeal
337. Further appeals
338. Legal representation
339. Protection for actions taken in good faith
PART XVIII — MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
340. Power of the Minister and delegation
341. Legal proceedings, pre-action notice and right to represent Commission
before Court or Tribunal
342. Protection of action taken in good faith
343. Penalty
344. General offences
345. Criminal prosecution
346. Offences by companies and market participants
347. Obligation of persons to disclose information connected with activities
of their employer
348. Power to recover administrative penalties as debt
349. Change of name of capital market operators, managers, portfolio or
collective investment scheme and change of shareholding or directors
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 43
350. Prohibition of use of certain titles
351. Removal of appointees and cancellation of registration
352. Committees of the Commission
353. Seal of the Commission
354. Application and relevance of other laws not barred
355. Rules and regulations
356. Repeals and savings
357. Interpretation
358. Citation
SCHEDULES
A 44 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 45
INVESTMENTS AND SECURITIES ACT, 2025
ACT No. 2
AN ACT TO REPEAL THE INVESTMENTS AND SECURITIES ACT, NO. 29, 2007 AND
ENACT THE INVESTMENTS AND SECURITIES ACT, 2025, TO ESTABLISH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION AS THE APEX REGULATORY AUTHORITY
FOR THE NIGERIAN CAPITAL MARKET AS WELL AS TO REGULATE THE MARKET TO
ENSURE CAPITAL FORMATION, THE PROTECTION OF INVESTORS, MAINTENANCE OF
FAIR, EFFICIENT AND TRANSPARENT MARKET AND REDUCTION OF SYSTEMIC RISK ;
AND FOR RELATED MATTERS.
[25th Day of March, 2025] Commence-
ment
ENACTED by the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria—
PART I — ESTABLISHMENT, OBJECTIVES, FUNCTIONS, AND POWERS OF THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
1.—(1) There is established the Securities and Exchange Commission (in Establishment
this Act referred to as “the Commission”). of the
Securities
(2) The Commission —
and
(a) shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common Exchange
Commission
seal;
(b) may sue and be sued in its corporate name; and
(c) shall have the power to acquire, hold or dispose of any property,
movable or immovable for the purpose of performing any of its functions
under this Act.
(3) Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the Commission shall be
independent in the performance of its functions and objectives under this Act.
2. The Commission shall have its head office in a location which is by law Head office
designated as the capital of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and may establish of the
zonal offices in any part of Nigeria in accordance with the decision of the Board Commission
of the Commission.
3.—(1) The Commission shall be the apex regulatory authority for the Objectives,
Nigerian capital market and shall perform the functions and exercise all the functions
powers prescribed in this Act. and powers
of the
(2) The objectives of the Commission shall be to — Commission
(a) act in the public interest having regard to the protection of investors
and the maintenance of fair, efficient and transparent markets;
(b) protect the integrity of the securities market against all forms of market
abuse and insider dealing;
A 46 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(c) prevent unauthorised, illegal, unlawful, fraudulent and unfair trade
practices relating to securities and investments;
(d) contribute to the reduction of systemic risk and promote financial
stability;
(e) ensure the development of the capital market and facilitate capital
formation for economic development; and
(f ) pursue such other objectives as may be related to those stated in
paragraphs (a)-(e).
(3) The Commission shall —
(a) regulate investments and securities business in Nigeria as defined in
this Act;
(b) register and regulate securities exchanges, commodities exchanges,
virtual and digital asset exchanges and other market venues;
(c) register securities of public companies;
(d) register and regulate all securities offered to the public as defined in
this Act;
(e) render assistance as may be deemed necessary to promoters and
investors wishing to establish securities exchanges;
(f ) register, regulate and supervise corporate and individual capital market
operators as defined in this Act;
(g) register and regulate the workings of collective investment schemes
and such other schemes as may be approved by the Commission;
(h) regulate credit enhancement services in the capital market;
(i) register and regulate securities depository companies, clearing and
settlement companies, custodians of assets and securities, collateral managers,
credit rating agencies, virtual asset service providers, digital asset operators,
credit enhancement facility providers, and such other agencies and
intermediaries as may be approved by the Commission;
(j) register derivative products and regulate the derivatives market;
(k) regulate the operations of the National Savings Scheme or any other
similar scheme as may be established;
(l) register and regulate self-regulatory organisations, and capital market
trade associations to which it may delegate its powers;
(m) register and regulate collateral management companies, warehouse
operators and warehouses which issue warehouse receipt in relation to
commodities to be traded on a registered exchange;
(n) register and regulate the issuance of electronic warehouse receipts, to
be traded on a commodity exchange;
(o) register and regulate online forex trading activities, platforms and
intermediaries;
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 47
(p) review and approve takeovers and all forms of business combinations
and affected transactions of public companies;
(q) authorise and regulate cross-border securities transactions;
(r) prevent and sanction unauthorised and illegal dealing in securities and
investment schemes;
(s) advise the Minister on matters relating to the securities industry; and
(t) perform such other functions consistent with this Act as are necessary
or expedient for giving effect to the provisions of this Act.
(4) In performing its functions under this Act, the Commission shall have
the powers to —
(a) intervene in the management and control of capital market operators,
public companies and regulated entities which it considers have acted in a
manner detrimental to the interest of its investors, shareholders, committed
grave corporate governance violations, have failed, is failing or is in crisis,
including entering into the premises and doing whatsoever it deems necessary
in the interest of the public and for the protection of investors;
(b) appoint independent directors into the boards of public companies in
which the Commission has intervened or taken a regulatory action;
(c) place directors of public companies on probation for a period of time
considered reasonable by the Commission in accordance with regulations
made under this Act;
(d) remove any person associated with misconduct or mismanagement of
a public company or capital market operator;
(e) issue directives to regulated entities on matters relating to activities of
the capital market;
(f ) call for information from, inspect, conduct inquiries on, and audit
securities exchanges, capital market operators, collective investment schemes
and all other regulated entities or associated persons;
(g) audit, call for the production of records and documents of public
companies and other regulated entities;
(h) call for, or furnish to any person, such information as it may consider
necessary for the efficient performance of its functions;
(i) investigate any person in connection with the violation or suspected
violation of this Act or other securities laws, codes and regulations;
(j) obtain subscriber records held or maintained by internet service
providers, telephone service providers and other electronic communication
providers located within Nigeria which identify subscribers, payment details
and other relevant details including content of communication in connection
with the violation or suspected violation of this Act or other securities laws,
code and regulations;
A 48 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(k) impose administrative caution, lien or seek judicial order to freeze the
assets (including stocks and bank accounts) of any person or firm who is
being investigated for capital market infractions pending the outcome of
investigation;
(l) in conjunction with the Attorney General of the Federation, provide
information and assistance on request to other local and foreign regulators on
freezing or sequestration of funds or assets within Nigeria;
(m) enter, seize property, seal up the premises of persons illegally carrying
on capital market operations and investment schemes and seek an order of
forfeiture for the recovered assets;
(n) establish a National Confiscation Wallet and Multi-Party Combination
Wallet;
(o) ensure the domestication of private keys;
(p) obtain audit work papers, communications and other information relating
to the audit or review of financial statements of public companies and all
regulated entities;
(q) disqualify any person considered unfit from being employed or
participating or continuing to participate in any arm of the securities industry;
(r) facilitate the linking of all markets in securities with information and
communication technology facilities;
(s) administer oath on any person subject to any legislation governing the
administration of oaths;
(t) compel attendance for statement or testimony under oath in accordance
with the rights and privileges afforded by the laws of the Federal Republic of
Nigeria;
(u) establish a nationwide trust scheme to compensate investors whose
losses are not covered under the investors protection funds administered by
securities exchanges;
(v) provide for the treatment of unclaimed dividends of public companies,
including public companies that are defunct or have ceased to exist;
(w) take any step necessary for the protection of investors, in the public
interest and for the maintenance of fair and orderly markets;
(x) keep and maintain a register of foreign portfolio investments;
(y) promote investors’ education and the training of all categories of
intermediaries in the securities industry;
(z) promote innovations in the capital market;
(aa) levy, fees, administrative fines and administrative costs of
proceedings or other charges on any person in relation to investments
and securities business in Nigeria in accordance with the provisions of
this Act;
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 49
(bb) conduct, cause to be conducted, and disseminate research findings
on any matter provided for in this Act;
(cc) relate with domestic and foreign regulators and supervisors of
other financial institutions including entering into cooperation agreement
on matters of common interest;
(dd) prepare guidelines, organise training programmes and disseminate
information necessary for the establishment of securities exchanges and
other market venues;
(ee) appoint or procure the appointment of all such qualified persons,
professionals or experts to give effect to or for performance of any of its
objectives, functions and powers in this Act;
(ff ) exercise all the preceding powers against persons, companies,
associations and schemes involved in the promotion, distribution or sale of
unauthorised or illegal investment schemes and securities; and
(gg) collaborate with any authority in respect to identity management.
(5) Where the Commission is empowered to take any action against an
entity or its officers that is also regulated by another regulator, the Commission
shall collaborate with the regulator of such entity in taking any regulatory action
in accordance with the framework agreed between the Commission and such
regulator.
PART II — ESTABLISHMENT OF THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE COMMISSION
4.—(1) There shall be for the Commission, a Governing Board (in this Act Composition
referred to as “the Board”), which shall be responsible for the policy and general of the Board
administration of the affairs of the Commission. of the
Commission
(2) The Board shall consist of —
(a) a part-time Chairman;
(b) the Director-General who shall be the chief executive and accounting
officer;
(c) three full-time Commissioners one of whom shall be a legal practitioner
qualified to practice in Nigeria with a minimum of 12 years post call to bar
experience;
(d) a representative of the Central Bank of Nigeria not below the rank of a
Director;
(e) a representative of the National Pension Commission not below the
rank of a Director;
(f ) a Director of the Federal Ministry responsible for finance; and
(g) two part-time Commissioners with proven integrity and knowledge of
capital market matters, one of whom shall be a legal practitioner qualified to
practice in Nigeria with a minimum of 12 years post call to bar experience.
A 50 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Appointment 5.—(1) The members of the Board shall be appointed by the President on
and tenure of the recommendation of the Minister.
members of
(2) The appointment of the Director-General and the three full-time
the Board
Commissioners shall be subject to confirmation by the Senate.
(3) The Director-General shall hold office for a term of five years in the
first instance and may be reappointed for a further term of five years and no
more.
(4) The three full-time Commissioners shall hold office in the first instance
for a term of four years and may be re-appointed for a further term of four years
and no more.
(5) The Chairman and part-time Commissioners (other than the ex-officio
Commissioners) shall each hold office for a term of four years and no more.
(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (2) and (3), the President
may extend the tenure of the Director-General and any of the full-time
Commissioners whose term of office has expired until a successor to such
Director-General or full-time Commissioner is appointed:
Provided that such extension shall not exceed a period of three months.
(7) A person shall not be qualified for appointment to the Board of the
Commission unless he is a fit and proper person and in the case of —
(a) the Chairman of the Board and Director-General of the Commission,
he is a holder of a university degree with not less than 15 years cognate
experience in capital market operations;
(b) any other member other than an ex-officio member, he is a holder of
a university degree with not less than 12 years cognate experience in capital
market operations or legal practice as the case may be; and
(c) an ex-officio member, he is not below the rank of a director in the
Central Bank of Nigeria, the National Pension Commission, and the Federal
Ministry responsible for finance.
Duties of 6.—(1) The Board of the Commission shall —
the Board
(a) give strategic direction to the Commission, formulate general policies
for the regulation and development of the capital market for the achievement
and performance of the functions of the Commission;
(b) approve the audited accounts of the Commission;
(c) appoint auditors for the Commission;
(d) consider and approve the annual budget of the Commission as may be
presented to it by the management;
(e) approve the establishment of zonal offices of the Commission;
(f ) establish departments to achieve the objectives and the efficient
performance of the functions of the Commission under this Act; and
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 51
(g) carry out such other activities as are necessary and expedient for the
purposes of achieving the objectives of the Commission.
(2) The Board shall consider and approve the duties of the full time
Commissioners on the recommendation of the Director-General.
(3) The Board may also approve the reassignment of the full time
Commissioners by the Director-General.
7. The Director-General and the full time Commissioners shall devote Director-
their full time to the service of the Commission and while holding office shall not General and
hold any other office or employment except where appointed by virtue of their full time
Commissioners
office in the Commission into the membership of the Board of any agency of the
to be fully
government in Nigeria or any international organisation to which the Commission
devoted to
is a member or an affiliate.
the
Commission
8. The Director-General or, any of the Commissioners designated by the Management
Director-General to act in his absence, shall be responsible for the management of the
Commission
and administration of the Commission and shall be answerable to the Board of
the Commission.
9.—(1) A member of the Board shall cease to hold office if he — Disqualifica-
tion,
(a) is medically certified to be of unsound mind or incapable of discharging
cessation of
his duties owing to ill health;
appointment
(b) is adjudged bankrupt or makes a compromise with his creditors; and
resignation
(c) is convicted of a felony or any offence involving fraud or dishonesty
by a court of competent jurisdiction;
(d) is found guilty of serious misconduct in relation to his duties; or
(e) is a person who has a professional qualification, and is disqualified or
suspended from practicing his profession in any part of Nigeria or any other
country by the order of any competent authority made in respect of him
personally.
(2) The President may at any time, on the recommendation of the Minister,
remove a person to whom subsection (1) applies, provided that no full time
member of the Board of the Commission shall be removed from office without
the approval of the Senate.
(3) Any member of the Board, including the Director-General, may resign
his appointment at any time by giving at least three months’ prior notice in
writing to the President of his intention to do so.
(4) Where the Chairman, Director-General, or any Commissioner dies,
resigns or otherwise vacates his office before the expiry of the term for which
he has been appointed, there shall be appointed a fit and proper person to take
his place on the Board for the unexpired period of the term of appointment in the
first instance in the manner prescribed in section 5 of this Act.
A 52 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Remuneration 10.—(1) The Director-General and the three full time Commissioners
and shall be paid such remuneration and allowances as may be determined by the
allowances
Board of the Commission.
of members
of the Board (2) The allowances for the part-time members shall be in accordance with
the prevailing guidelines on remuneration for part-time members of public bodies
issued by the appropriate agency of the Federal Government.
Meetings of 11.—(1) Meetings of the Board shall take place as often as may be required
the Board but not less than four times in any financial year of the Commission.
(2) The Chairman shall preside at every meeting of the Board and in his
absence, the members present at such meeting shall appoint one of their members
to preside.
(3) The supplementary provisions set out in the First Schedule to this Act
shall have effect with respect to the proceedings of the Board and the other
matters contained in it.
Disclosure 12.—(1) where a member of the Board is directly or indirectly interested
by Board in —
members
(a) the affairs of any company or enterprise being deliberated upon by the
Board; or
(b) any contract made or proposed to be made by the Board, such member
shall, immediately after relevant facts have come to his knowledge, disclose
the nature of his interest to the other members of the Board at the meeting of
the Board.
(2) A disclosure made under subsection (1) shall be recorded in the minutes
of the meeting of the Board and the member after the disclosure shall —
(a) not participate or continue to participate in any deliberation or decision
of the Board with regard to the subject matter in respect of which his interest
is so disclosed;
(b) not influence or seek to influence a decision to be made in relation to
the matter; and
(c) be excluded for the purpose of constituting a quorum of the Board
from any deliberation or decision on the subject matter.
(3) The members of the Board of the Commission shall subscribe to and
be bound by a code of ethics to be approved by the Minister.
PART III — STAFF OF THE COMMISSION
Appointment 13.—(1) There shall be for the Commission a Secretary who shall be
of the appointed by the Board.
Secretary
and other (2) The Secretary shall be a legal practitioner of not less than 10 years’
staff of the post-call experience.
Commission
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 53
14. The remuneration (including allowances) and the terms and conditions Remuneration
of service of the Secretary and other staff of the Commission shall be determined of the
by the Board. Secretary
and other
staff of the
Commission
15.—(1) The Secretary shall — Duties of
the Secretary
(a) attend the meetings of the Board, and its committees and render all
necessary secretarial services in respect of the meetings and advise on
compliance by the meetings with applicable laws and regulations;
(b) keep and maintain records of the Board; and
(c) discharge such administrative and other secretarial duties as may be
required by the Board or the Director-General.
(2) The Secretary shall exercise the powers of the Board only with the
authority of the Board.
16.—(1) Service in the Commission shall be public service for the purpose Service in
of this Act and accordingly, every staff of the Commission shall be entitled to the
pension and other retirement benefits as prescribed by law. Commission
to be
(2) Nothing in this section shall prevent the appointment of a person to pensionable
any office on such terms and conditions, which preclude the grant of pension
and other retirement benefits.
PART IV — FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
17.—(1) The Commission shall establish and maintain a fund (in this Act Fund of the
referred to as “the Fund”) into which shall be paid — Commission
(a) funds provided to the Commission by the Federal Government;
(b) penalties, fees, charges and administrative cost of proceedings; and
(c) monetary gifts, contributions and other funds that may be received by
the Commission.
(2) The Commission shall maintain and operate bank accounts for funds
as approved by the Board.
18. The Commission shall apply the proceeds of the Fund established Application
under section 17 of this Act to — of Fund of
the
(a) meet the cost of administration of the Commission;
Commission
(b) reimburse members of any committee set up by the Commission for
expenses duly authorised or approved;
(c) pay the salaries, fees, allowances, pensions, gratuities, or other
remuneration payable to the staff and members of the Board of the Commission;
(d) maintain any property acquired by or vested in the Commission;
A 54 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(e) implement all or any of the functions and powers of the Commission
under this Act or any matter connected with those functions and powers;
(f ) propagate capital market literacy in Nigeria; and
(g) meet any capital expenditure approved by the Board.
Reserve 19.—(1) The Commission shall establish a reserve account into which all
account surpluses from the Fund shall be paid.
(2) Disbursement from the reserve account shall be approved by the
Board.
(3) The Commission may invest funds in the reserve account in securities
prescribed by the Trustee Investments Act and such other modifying legislation
or in such other securities as may be approved by the Board.
(4) Any deduction to be made from the Commission’s fund shall be in
accordance with the provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility Act.
Power to 20.—(1)—The Commission may accept gifts of land, money or other
accept gifts testamentary dispositions, endowments and contributions on such terms and
conditions, if any, as may be specified by the donor of the gift.
(2) The Commission shall not accept any gift if the conditions attached by
the donor are inconsistent with the functions, powers and objectives of the
Commission or if the acceptance of the gift would compromise the observance
and maintenance of proper conduct and professionalism in the discharge of its
duties and performance of its functions.
Penalties 21. The Commission shall charge, retain and utilise for its purposes —
and fees to
(a) penalties imposed for violation of this Act and the rules and regulations
be retained
and utilised made under it; and
by the (b) fees collected for the services rendered by the Commission under this
Commission
Act, including recovery of costs of administrative proceedings.
Borrowing 22. The Commission may, subject to the approval of the Board, borrow
by the by way of loan a specified amount of money as it may require for meeting its
Commission obligations and performing its functions under this Act.
Investments 23. The Commission may, subject to the provisions of this Act and the
by the conditions of any trust created in respect of any property, invest all or any of its
Commission
funds as may be approved by the Board.
Annual 24.—(1) The Board shall cause to be prepared, not later than 30 September
estimates, in each year, an estimate of the income and expenditure of the Commission
account and during the next succeeding year and when prepared, they shall be submitted to
audit
the Minister and the National Assembly.
(2) The Commission shall cause to be kept, proper books of records and
accounts which shall be audited by auditors appointed by the Board.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 55
25. The Commission, shall not later than three months after the end of Annual
each year, submit to the Minister and the National Assembly, a report on the report
activities and administration of the Commission during the immediate preceding
year and, shall include in such reports, audited accounts of the Commission and
the report of the auditor on the accounts.
PART V — REGISTRATION AND REGULATION OF SECURITIES EXCHANGES, FINANCIAL
MARKET INFRASTRUCTURES AND OTHER SELF REGULATORY ORGANISATIONS
A — SECURITIES EXCHANGES
26.—(1) A person shall not establish or operate a securities exchange as Registration
defined in this Act unless such a person has been registered with the Commission of a
in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations made securities
exchange
under it.
(2) Where any person contravenes subsection (1) —
(a) the Commission shall halt all of its operations immediately or within
such timeframe as the Commission may determine; and
(b) each of the directors, promoters or any person who can reasonably be
regarded as being in control of the company shall be deemed to have committed
an offence and is liable on conviction to a term of imprisonment of not less
than five years or a fine of N10,000,000 or both.
(3) The Commission may, in lieu of prosecution under subsection (2),
impose a penalty of not less than the prescribed paid-up share capital of the
relevant securities exchange as specified by the Commission and a further sum
of not less than N100,000 for every day the violation continues.
27.—(1) A securities exchange may be registered by the Commission as a — Categories of
securities
(a) composite securities exchange; or
exchanges
(b) non-composite securities exchange.
(2) A composite securities exchange shall permit the listing, quotation and
trading of all types of securities, commodities or financial products or instruments
on its platform and shall perform such functions as may be prescribed by the
Commission.
(3) A non-composite securities exchange may be registered by the
Commission as —
(a) a mono securities exchange which specialises in the listing, quotation
and trading of a particular security, commodity, or financial product or
instrument; or
(b) an alternative trading system which provides trading systems that
bring together orders from buyers and sellers and could be set in either a
physical location or be made available for trading activities on the internet.
A 56 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Conditions 28.—(1) Every securities exchange shall be an entity incorporated or
for registered in Nigeria as defined in section 357 of this Act.
registration
of securities (2) An application for registration shall be accompanied by such information
exchanges and particulars as the Commission may by regulations require.
(3) The Commission may register a body corporate as a securities exchange
if it is satisfied that the rules of the body corporate make adequate provisions,
where applicable with respect to —
(a) the exclusion from its membership or trading, persons who are not of
good character and who do not possess a high degree of business integrity;
(b) the expulsion, suspension or discipline of members or participants for
conduct inconsistent with just and equitable principles in the transaction of
securities business or for contravention of or failure to comply with the rules
of the securities exchange or the provisions of this Act;
(c) the conditions under which securities may be listed, quoted or admitted
on that securities exchange;
(d) the conditions governing dealings in securities by the members or
participants;
(e) the class or classes of securities which may be dealt in by members or
participants; and
(f ) a fair representation of persons in the selection of members of the
board or participants of the securities exchange and the administration of its
affairs and provided that in securities exchanges with listed companies, at
least one or more representatives of listed companies and investors shall each
be represented by one or more members or participants on its board.
(4) In considering an application for registration, the Commission may
have regard to any information in its possession whether provided by the applicant
or not:
Provided that any information to be relied upon by the Commission must have
been requested from the applicant, and such information shall be verified by the
Commission as accurate.
(5) The Commission, in granting approval to register a securities exchange
under this section, shall ensure that the interest of the public will be served by
the grant of the approval.
(6) The Commission shall issue a certificate of registration to a body
corporate registered under this section.
Appointment 29.—(1) The appointment and removal of the chief executive and other
and removal principal officers of a securities exchange shall be subject to the prior approval
of chief
of the Commission in writing.
executive
and principal (2) The Commission may suspend or remove the chief executive or a
officers of a principal officer of a securities exchange, if it is satisfied that such officer has
securities contravened, failed or refused to comply with the —
exchange
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 57
(a) provisions of this Act or any regulations made under it;
(b) rules of the securities exchange; and
(c) directives of the Commission:
Provided that the chief executive or such principal officer, shall be given an
opportunity to be heard before the suspension or removal from office by the
Commission.
30.—(1) A securities exchange shall — Responsibili-
ties of a
(a) conduct its business in a fair and transparent manner with due regard
securities
to the rights of members or participants and their clients; exchange
(b) ensure compliance with this Act by its members or participants and
issuers of securities listed, quoted or admitted on that exchange, report any
non-compliance to the Commission and assist the Commission in enforcing
the provisions of this Act;
(c) develop and enforce rules, listing requirements and directives as
applicable;
(d) inform the Commission of any matter that may pose a systemic risk to
the financial markets as soon as it becomes aware of such matter;
(e) notify the Commission as soon as it commences an insolvency
proceeding or when such proceeding is commenced against it, or when it has
received a notification regarding insolvency proceedings against members or
participants; and
(f ) do all other things that are necessary for, incidental or conducive to
the proper operation of an exchange that are consistent with this Act.
(2) The Commission may, in order to achieve the objectives of this Act,
assume responsibility of one or more of the regulatory or supervisory functions
referred to in subsection (1);
(3) A securities exchange, shall at the end of every quarter file a detailed
report on its surveillance and enforcement activities with the Commission.
(4) Nothing in this section shall preclude the Commission from carrying
out inspections or conducting enquiries or audit of any member or participant of
a securities exchange.
31. A securities exchange shall maintain proper books of account and
records relating to its operations which shall be made available to the Commission
for inspection.
A 58 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Approval of 32.—(1) An amendment shall not be made to the rules or the listing
amendments requirements of a securities exchange, whether by way of rescission, amendment,
to listing
alteration, deletion, substitution or addition, unless the board of the securities
rules
exchange, has forwarded a written notice of the proposed amendment to the
Commission for approval.
(2) Nothing in this section shall preclude the Commission, after consultation
with the board of a securities exchange, from amending the rules or the listing
requirements of the securities exchange, by a notice in writing specifying the
amendment and the date the amendment shall come into effect.
(3) Any notice under this section may be served personally, electronically
or by registered post.
Securities 33. Where a securities exchange reprimands, fines, suspends, expels or
exchange to otherwise takes disciplinary action against a member or participant of the securities
give notice
exchange, it shall, within seven days, notify the Commission in writing of the
of
name and other particulars of the member or participant, and the nature of and
disciplinary
reason for the action taken by the securities exchange, against the affected
actions
member or participant.
Review of 34.—(1) The Commission may review any disciplinary action taken by a
disciplinary securities exchange, against its members or participants and may affirm or set
actions taken aside such decision after giving the member or participant and the securities
by a
exchange an opportunity of being heard.
securities
exchange (2) Nothing in this section shall preclude the Commission from suspending,
expelling or otherwise imposing or causing disciplinary action to be taken against
a member or participant of a securities exchange where such securities exchange
fails to act against such member or participant:
Provided that, before exercising the power conferred upon it by this subsection,
the Commission shall give the affected member or participant and the securities
exchange an opportunity of being heard.
Power to 35.—(1) The Commission may, where it deems appropriate, issue directives
issue to a securities exchange with respect to —
directives to
(a) trading on or through the facilities of that securities exchange or
a securities
exchange pertaining to any securities listed on the securities exchange;
(b) the manner in which a securities exchange carries on its business
including the manner of reporting off-market transactions; or
(c) any other matter which the Commission considers necessary for the
effective administration of this Act.
(2) A securities exchange that fails or refuses to comply with or respond
to a directive given under subsection (1) is liable to a penalty of not less than
N10,000,000 and a further penalty of not less than N500,000 for every day the
non-compliance continues.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 59
(3) Where the Commission, after giving an executive officer of a securities
exchange, an opportunity of being heard, is satisfied that such officer has
contravened, failed or refused to comply with the provisions of this Act or any
regulations made under it or the rules of the securities exchange, the Commission
may suspend or remove the executive officer from office.
(4) The Commission may, in the public interest or for the protection of
investors, and after giving the executive officer an opportunity of being heard,
direct the securities exchange in writing to remove the executive officer and
where the securities exchange fails to comply with the directive of the Commission
under subsection (3), the Commission may suspend or remove the executive
officer from office.
36.–(1) Where the Commission deems it necessary for the protection of Prohibition
persons transacting in particular securities on a securities exchange, it may of trading in
particular
suspend or prohibit further trading in the securities and give notice in writing to
securities
the securities exchange.
(2) Where, after receiving the notice given under subsection (1), the
securities exchange fails to take action to prevent trading in the securities to
which the notice relates, and the Commission still deems it necessary to
prohibit trading in the securities, the Commission may, by notice in writing,
to the securities exchange, prohibit trading in the securities for such period,
not exceeding 14 days:
Provided that the Commission shall have the power by notice in writing to increase
the period for a further period not exceeding 30 days at a time.
(3) A securities exchange which permits trading in securities in
contravention of a notice under subsection (2) is liable to a penalty of not less
than N1,000,000 and a further sum of N50,000 for every day the contravention
continues.
(4) In addition to the provisions of subsection (3), the Commission
may —
(a) revoke the registration of the securities exchange;
(b) refuse to consider or process any further request or application for
approval, registration or consent made or to be made to the Commission by
the securities exchange;
(c) apply to a court of law under the Companies and Allied Matters Act
for —
(i) a beneficial, efficient and orderly administration or winding up, as
the case may be, of the securities exchange in the best interest of the
market, or
(ii) an administrator, liquidator or an official receiver, being in each
case, a qualified professional and not necessarily a court official, to take-
A 60 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
over management under the supervision of the court in respect of the
securities exchange as if the Commission were a creditor:
Provided that a person appointed under subparagraph (i) or (ii) have the same
powers which would be available to a liquidator under winding up proceedings;
(d) after giving opportunities to the executive officers of the securities
exchange to be heard, appoint other competent persons to serve in a committee
in place of the serving chief executive officer and executive management and
board of the securities exchange; or
(e) apply to the Tribunal for an enforcement order in respect of its directive
to suspend trading on the specified securities:
Provided that the Commission may take any of the actions where it considers
that the interest of investors or of members of the public or the integrity of the
market so requires.
Revocation 37.—(1) The Commission may revoke the registration granted under section
of certificate
26 of this Act if the entity —
of a
securities (a) ceases to operate as a securities exchange within the meaning of this
exchange Act;
(b) is wound up;
(c) is operating in a manner detrimental to the interests of investors and
the public;
(d) engages in other businesses for which it is not registered in accordance
with the provisions of this Act; or
(e) fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the registration granted
by the Commission.
(2) A revocation under this section shall not be made unless the securities
exchange has been given an opportunity of being heard.
(3) In revoking the certificate of registration of a securities exchange, the
Commission shall state the reasons and the effective date for such revocation.
(4) The revocation made under subsection (1) shall contain such transitional
provisions as the Commission may deem fit in the public interest or for the
protection of investors.
(5) A securities exchange, shall not by reason of complying with such
transitional provisions as may be prescribed by the Commission under
subsection (4) be regarded as having contravened the provisions of this Act
or the rules and regulations made under it.
(6) Revocation of registration under this section shall not operate to —
(a) avoid or affect any agreement, transaction or arrangement entered
into by a securities exchange, whether such agreement, transaction or
arrangement was entered into before or after the withdrawal of the registration
under subsection (1); or
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 61
(b) affect any right, obligation or liability arising under such agreement,
transaction or arrangement.
(7) The Commission shall publish a notice of the revocation on its website
or such other medium as it deems fit.
38.—(1) The Commission shall issue directives and make rules and Listing of a
regulations to govern the listing of the securities of a securities exchange or securities
an exchange holding company on a related securities exchange, which shall exchange or
an exchange
cover —
holding
(a) conflicts of interests that may arise; company on
(b) corporate governance and administration matters; securities
(c) listing process and trading requirements; and exchange
(d) such other matters as may be deemed necessary by the Commission.
(2) The Commission may, by notice in writing, exempt a securities exchange
or an exchange holding company from complying with any listing requirement
of the related securities exchange.
39.—(1)—An exchange holding company shall ensure — Responsibilities
of exchange
(a) an orderly and fair market in relation to securities that are traded on the
holding
market through the facilities of the securities exchange of the exchange holding
company
company or through the facilities of any of its subsidiaries that is duly approved
as a securities exchange;
(b) the prudent risk management of its business and operations; and
(c) that the exchange holding company or any of its subsidiaries registered
by the Commission to operate as a securities exchange, complies with any
lawful requirements placed on it under this Act or the rules and regulations
made under it and other laws applicable to it.
(2) In discharging its duty under subsection (1), the exchange holding
company shall —
(a) act in the public interest, and in particular having regard to the protection
of investors; and
(b) ensure that where its own interest conflicts with the interest referred
to in paragraph (a), the interest in paragraph (a) shall prevail.
(3) An exchange holding company shall immediately notify the Commission
if it becomes aware of —
(a) any matter which adversely affects or is likely to adversely affect the
ability of —
(i) the exchange holding company to meet its obligations in respect of
its business as an exchange holding company or a securities exchange,
A 62 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
including its ability to comply with any requirement as may be specified by
the Commission, where applicable, or
(ii) any subsidiary of the exchange holding company to meet its
obligations in respect of its business, including the ability of any such
subsidiary to comply with any requirement as may be specified by the
Commission, where applicable; or
(b) any irregularity, breach of any provision of this Act or rules and
regulations made under it, the rules of a securities exchange or any other
matter which, in the opinion of the exchange holding company, indicates or
may indicate, that the financial standing or financial integrity of any of its
subsidiaries or the chief executive or directors of such subsidiary, as the case
may be, is in question or may reasonably be affected.
(4) Where an exchange holding company, approved as a securities exchange
undertakes any function of a subsidiary that is approved as a securities exchange,
such exchange holding company shall enter into arrangements as the Commission
may determine as to how the duties and obligations of the exchange holding
company and the subsidiary, under this Act or rules and regulations made under
it are satisfied.
Disposal and 40.—(1) Where an exchange holding company, a securities exchange, or
acquisition other similar body intends to enter into an agreement or arrangement, to dispose
of assets
of or acquire assets, which value threshold has been specified by the Commission,
it shall obtain the Commission’s prior written consent.
(2) Where the Commission makes a specification under subsection (1), it
shall have regard to whether the assets referred to in the specification are integral
to the operations of the exchange holding company, securities exchange, or any
other similar body corporate, as the case may be, or significant in affecting the
business direction of such entities.
B — FINANCIAL MARKET INFRASTRUCTURES
Establishment 41.—(1) A person shall not establish or operate a financial market
and infrastructure as defined in this Act unless the person has obtained a certificate
operation of of registration from the Commission in accordance with the provisions of this
a financial
Act and the rules and regulations made under it.
market
infrastructure (2) Where any person contravenes subsection (1) —
(a) the Commission shall shut down its operations and seal up its
premises immediately or within such timeframe as the Commission may
determine; and
(b) each of the directors, promoters or any person who can be regarded
as being in control of the company shall be deemed to have committed an
offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than the prescribed
paid-up share capital of the relevant financial market infrastructure function
as specified by the Commission or to imprisonment for a term of not less
than five years or both.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 63
(3) The Commission may in lieu of prosecution under subsection (2),
impose a penalty of not less than the prescribed paid-up share capital of the
relevant financial market infrastructure function as specified by the Commission.
42.—(1) An application for approval to establish or operate a financial Registration
market infrastructure shall be made in such manner as the Commission of financial
may direct. market
infrastructures
(2) The Commission, in granting approval to register a financial market
infrastructure, shall ensure that it is in the interest of the public to do so.
43.—(1) The Commission may, in the interest of the public and for the Protection of
protection of investors or counterparts, by notice in writing — investors in
a financial
(a) withdraw or revoke the approval granted to a financial market
market
infrastructure with effect from the date specified in the notice; or infrastructure
(b) direct the financial market infrastructure to cease to operate or provide
such services with effect from the date specified in the notice.
(2) Notwithstanding the withdrawal of approval or the issuance of a directive
under subsection (1), the Commission may permit the financial market
infrastructure to carry on such activities affected by the revocation as the
Commission may specify in the notice published under that subsection for the
purpose of —
(a) winding down the operations of the financial market infrastructure or
ceasing to provide the services specified in the notice; or
(b) ceasing to provide the services specified in the notice.
(3) The Commission shall not take any action specified under subsection
(1) without giving the entity concerned an opportunity to be heard.
(4) Any withdrawal of approval or directive issued by the Commission
under subsection (1) shall not operate to —
(a) avoid or affect any agreement, transaction or arrangement entered
into through the financial market infrastructure whether such agreement,
transaction or arrangement was entered into before, or after the withdrawal
of the approval or issuance of the directive; or
(b) affect any right, obligation or liability arising under such agreement,
transaction or arrangement.
(5) The Commission shall publish the notice of revocation on its website
and any other medium as it deems fit.
44. A financial market infrastructure shall make rules for the effective Financial
performance of its functions, which shall be subject to the prior approval of the market
Commission. infrastructure
rules
A 64 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
C — PROVISIONS RELATING TO INSOLVENCY OF FINANCIAL MARKET INFRASTRUCTURES,
AND OTHER MATTERS
Modification 45.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, the insolvency law provisions
of shall not apply to —
insolvency
(a) market contracts as defined in this Act;
law rules
(b) action taken under the rules of a securities exchange with respect to
market contracts;
(c) action taken under the rules of a financial market infrastructure with
respect to market contracts;
(d) action taken under the rules of a financial market infrastructure to
transfer cleared client contracts, or settle cleared client contracts or cleared
house contracts, in accordance with the default rules of the financial market
infrastructure;
(e) where cleared client contracts transferred in accordance with the
default rules of a financial market infrastructure was entered into by a clearing
member or client as principal, action taken to transfer client trades, or group
of client trades, corresponding to those cleared client contracts;
(f ) action taken to transfer any collateral or any security over such collateral
in conjunction with the transfer of any cleared client contract or client trade
as mentioned in paragraphs (d) or (e); and
(g) a transfer of any property made by a financial market infrastructure to —
(i) any client of a participant or member, where such property comprises
the collateral remaining on a client account following the completion of the
default management process in respect of the participant or member, or
(ii) any other person, in connection with a qualifying property transfer
made under paragraphs (d), (e) or (f ) and in each case to the extent that
such transfer is made in accordance with the default rules of the financial
market infrastructure.
(2) The provisions of this section shall apply in relation to insolvency
proceedings in respect of a —
(a) member of a securities exchange;
(b) member of a financial market infrastructure; or
(c) party to a market contract begun after a financial market infrastructure
has commenced an action as defined under its default rules in relation to a
person that is a party to the contract as principal, but not in relation to any
other insolvency proceedings, notwithstanding that rights or liabilities arising
from market contracts are to be dealt with in the proceedings.
(3) A debt or other liability arising out of a market contract which is the
subject of default proceedings may not be proved in a winding up or other
arrangement until completion of the financial market infrastructure’s default
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 65
proceedings and a debt or other liability which may not be proved or claimed,
shall not be taken into account for the purpose of set-off until such completion.
(4) Subject to subsection (3), in an insolvency proceeding, the insolvency
office holder appointed is not allowed to select, affirm or avoid individual market
contract.
46. Notwithstanding any provision of any other law, none of the items Proceedings
listed in this section shall be regarded as invalid on the ground of inconsistency of a financial
with the law relating to the insolvency of any person or the distribution of the market
infrastructure
assets of a person on insolvency, bankruptcy, winding up, receivership or any
to take
other arrangement or subject to challenge, avoidance, or revocation under Nigerian
precedence
law on —
over
insolvency
(a) a market contract;
procedures
(b) the default rules of a financial market infrastructure;
(c) the rules of a financial market infrastructure relating to the settlement
of a market contract not dealt with under its default rules;
(d) the transfer of any clearing member client contract or the settlement
of any cleared contract in accordance with the default rules of a financial
market infrastructure;
(e) clearing member client contract transferred in accordance with the
default rules of a financial market infrastructure, the transfer of any client
trade between a participant and its client, or group of client trades, that
corresponds to that clearing member client contract;
(f ) a transfer of any collateral or any security over such collateral in
conjunction with the transfer of any clearing member client contract or client
trade as mentioned in paragraphs (d) or (e);
(g) a qualifying property transfer; and
(h) any net sum certified by a financial market infrastructure under its
default rules to be payable to or by a defaulting participant or member:
Provided that nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the exercise of
any right of a financial market infrastructure under insolvency laws or as specified
in the rules of the financial market infrastructure.
47.—(1) A conflicting order shall not be made under the Bankruptcy Act Disapplication
and the Companies and Allied Matters Act or any other law dealing with bankruptcy of
conflicting
or insolvency in relation to any matter under subsection (2) and none of those
orders under
matters shall be regarded as invalid, revocable, or subject to challenge by an
insolvency
insolvency office-holder.
laws
(2) The matters to which subsection (1) apply are —
(a) a market contract;
(b) a disposition of property under a market contract;
(c) the provision of market collateral;
A 66 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(d) a contract effected by a financial market infrastructure for purposes
of realising property provided as market collateral;
(e) a disposition of property in accordance with the rules of a financial
market infrastructure as to the application of property provided as market
collateral;
(f ) a market charge;
(g) the default rules of the financial market infrastructure;
(h) the rules of the financial market infrastructure for the netting and
settlement of market contracts;
(i) any default proceedings and action taken under the default rules of a
financial market infrastructure including, any transfer prescribed in section
45 (1) (d)-(g) of this Act; and
(j) any net sum certified by a financial market infrastructure under its
default rules.
Net sum 48.—(1) Subject to section 46 of this Act, where a net sum has been
payable certified by a financial market infrastructure under its default rules as payable by
upon
or to a defaulter, then such sum is provable in the winding up or administration
compliance
or, as the case may be, is payable to the relevant office-holder of an insolvency
with default
proceeding, and shall be taken into account, where appropriate, for set-off
proceedings
applicable in the case of winding up or administration or other insolvency
proceeding, in the same way as a debt due before the commencement of the
insolvency proceeding.
(2) Where a sum is taken into account which arises out of a market
contract entered into at a time when the creditor had notice that a meeting of
creditors had been summoned under any insolvency law or provisions in effect
in Nigeria, or that a winding up petition was pending, or that an application for
an administration order was pending or that any person had given notice of
intention to appoint an administrator, the value of any profit to the creditor from
the sum being so taken into account is recoverable from it by the relevant office-
holder unless the court directs otherwise, but this provision does not apply
where the sum arises from an ordinary contract.
Duty to 49.—(1) A person who has control of any asset of a defaulter has a duty
provide to provide the financial market infrastructure such assistance as the financial
assistance
market infrastructure may reasonably require for the purpose of its default
proceedings.
(2) Where the control of such assets by the person is as a result of
lawfully holding same as a security, an insolvency office holder shall also
acknowledge and defer to such secured creditor’s right to the extent that the
person does not need to elect to surrender such security and is entitled to enforce
same without any general insolvency rule restriction.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 67
50.—(1) The avoidance of, or the principle in relation to property Disapplication
dispositions, fraudulent preferences and the priority of payments under any law of
avoidances,
of insolvency does not apply to —
fraudulent
(a) a market contract; preference,
(b) margin provided in relation to a market contract; and priority
(c) a default fund contribution to a financial market infrastructure; of payments
(d) a contract made by the financial market infrastructure for realising
that margin or contribution or any disposition of property in accordance with
the financial market infrastructure’s rules applicable to margin;
(e) any disposition of property in accordance with the rules of the financial
market infrastructure as to the application of property provided as margin or
as default fund contribution;
(f ) a collateral arrangement under which collateral is provided by a clearing
member to a financial market infrastructure;
(g) a transfer of a clearing member client contract, a client trade or a
collateral arrangement; or
(h) a qualifying property transfer:
Provided that, where the non-defaulter had notice of a winding up petition when
entering into a market contract or taking margin or contribution, any resulting
profit is recoverable from the non-defaulter unless the court otherwise directs,
and this proviso does not apply to market contracts where the person entering
into the contract is a financial market infrastructure acting in accordance with
its rules, or where the contract is effected under the default rules of a financial
market infrastructure.
(2) The following may not be challenged as a transaction at an undervalue,
a preference or a transaction defrauding the general body of creditors —
(a) a market contract to which a securities exchange or financial market
infrastructure is a party or which is entered into under its default rules;
(b) a disposition of property under that market contract;
(c) margin provided in relation to a market contract, a collateral
arrangement, any contract effected by a financial market infrastructure for
the purpose of realising the property provided as margin, or any disposition
of property in accordance with the rules of the financial market infrastructure
as to the application of property provided as margin;
(d) a default fund contribution made to a financial market infrastructure,
any contract effected by a financial market infrastructure for the purpose of
realising the property provided as a default fund contribution, or any disposition
of property in accordance with the rules of the financial market infrastructure
as to the application of property provided as default fund contribution;
(e) a transfer of a clearing member client contract, a client trade or a
collateral arrangement; or
(f ) a qualifying property transfer.
A 68 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(3) The power to disclaim onerous property or to rescind contracts shall
not apply to a —
(a) market contract;
(b) collateral arrangement;
(c) transfer of a clearing member client contract, a client trade or a collateral
arrangement;
(d) qualifying property transfer; or
(e) contract effected by the financial market infrastructure for the purpose
of realising property provided as margin in relation to a market contract or as
default fund contribution.
(4) Where property, other than land, is held by the financial market
infrastructure as margin for a market contract or as default fund contribution —
(a) the property may be applied in accordance with the financial market
infrastructure’s rules notwithstanding any prior equitable interest or right, or
any right or remedy arising from a breach of fiduciary duty, unless the financial
market infrastructure had notice of the interest, right or breach of duty at the
time the property was provided as margin or default fund contribution; and
(b) no execution or other legal process for the enforcement of a judgment
or court order may be commenced or continued, and no distress may be
levied against the property by a third party, except, in the case of margin or
default fund contribution, with the financial market infrastructure’s written
consent.
Protection 51. Without prejudice to any specific provision of this section, the rules of
of certain a financial market infrastructure as to —
actions of
(a) the settlement of market contracts and transfer orders,
financial
(b) the netting of any right and obligation of clearing member or participant
market
in the financial market infrastructure under the rules of the financial market
infrastructure
infrastructure or one or more market contracts,
(c) the set-off of any obligation between the financial market infrastructure
and a clearing member or participant or between clearing members or
participants in the financial market infrastructure,
(d) the termination, close out or cancellation of any market contract,
(e) the transfer of any market contract and associated collateral,
(f ) the enforcement of any security interest of a financial market
infrastructure in respect of any collateral provided by a clearing member or
participant for any market contract,
(g) the appropriation of any collateral held by a financial market infrastructure
under its default rules, in set-off against any obligation of a clearing member or
participant that has become a defaulter under such default rules,
(h) any qualifying collateral transfer, or
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 69
(i) the certification by a financial market infrastructure as to the final net
sum representing any sums from a clearing member or participant to a financial
market infrastructure, or from a financial market infrastructure to a clearing
member or participant, following the completion of the financial market
infrastructure’s default proceedings, and any action taken by a financial market
infrastructure under such rules,
shall be protected and shall not be subject to challenge under the laws of contract
or insolvency or any other provision of law in Nigeria, by any person, clearing
member or participant or any insolvency office-holder under any insolvency
proceedings.
52. Terms used in this Part shall be construed as defined in section 357 of Terms used
this Act. in this Part
D — SETTLEMENT FINALITY OF TRANSFER ORDERS
53. (1) The insolvency law shall have no effect in relation to — Modification
of
(a) transfer orders effected through a system and action taken under the
insolvency
rules of a system with respect to such orders; and
laws
(b) collateral security.
(2) The provisions of this section shall apply to insolvency proceedings in
respect of a —
(a) participant in a system, or
(b) system operator of a system,
but not in relation to any other insolvency proceedings, notwithstanding that
rights or liabilities arising from transfer orders or collateral security fail to be
dealt with in the proceedings.
54.—(1) The following shall not be regarded as invalid on the ground of Protection
inconsistency with the law relating to the distribution of the assets of a person on of transfer
bankruptcy, winding up, administration, receivership, or any other arrangement, orders and
systems
or in the administration of an insolvent estate or with the law relating to other
insolvency proceedings of a country or territory outside Nigeria —
(a) a transfer order;
(b) the default arrangements of a system;
(c) the rules of a system as to the settlement of transfer orders not dealt
with under its default arrangements; or
(d) a contract for the purpose of realising collateral security in connection
with participation in a system other than under its default arrangements.
(2) The powers of a relevant office-holder in his capacity as such, and
the powers of the court under the Companies and Allied Matters Act or any
A 70 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
successor insolvency law, shall not be exercised in such a way as to prevent
or interfere with —
(a) the settlement in accordance with the rules of a system of a transfer
order not dealt with under its default arrangements;
(b) any action taken under the default arrangements of a system; or
(c) any action taken to realise collateral security in connection with
participation in a system otherwise than under its default arrangements.
(3) Contracts between a relevant financial market infrastructure and a
participant or an insolvent participant are protected from the laws of insolvency,
and a financial market infrastructure shall be treated as a secured creditor of
priority, irrespective of the nature of the collateral it holds, with respect to the
collateral pledged by such insolvent participant.
(4) Without prejudice to subsections (1) - (3), no provision of any insolvency
law in Nigeria shall have the effect to —
(a) invalidate dispositions made after the commencement of insolvency
proceedings;
(b) enable an insolvency office-holder to disclaim onerous contracts;
(c) invalidate pre-insolvency transactions in particular circumstances, such
as transfers made at an undervalue or preferences; or
(d) suspend the enforcement of security, such as in the moratorium
applicable in an administration of an insolvent company, or by reason of
rights claimed by third-parties in property provided as margin, so as to frustrate
the operation of the provisions or actions specified in section 53 of this Act.
(5) A debt or other liability arising out of a transfer order which is the
subject of action taken under default arrangements of a financial market
infrastructure may not be proved in a winding up, bankruptcy, or administration,
until the completion of the action taken under such default arrangements, and a
debt or other liability which by virtue of this subsection may not be proved or
claimed shall not be taken into account for the purposes of any set-off until the
completion of the action taken under default arrangements of the financial market
infrastructure.
Limitation of 55.—(1) This section shall not apply in relation to any transfer order given
protection by a participant which is entered into a system after a —
(a) court has made an order of winding up in respect of that participant or
a system operator which is not a participant in the system, or
(b) creditors’ voluntary winding-up resolution has been passed in respect
of that participant, unless the conditions mentioned in either subsection (2) or
(4) are satisfied.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 71
(2) The conditions referred to in subsection (1) are that the —
(a) transfer order is carried out on the same business day of the system
that the event specified in subsection (1) (a) or (b) occurs; and
(b) system operator can show that it did not have notice of that event at
the time the transfer order became irrevocable.
(3) For the purposes of subsection (2)(b) the relevant system operator
shall be taken to have notice of an event specified in subsection (1)(a) or (b) if
it deliberately failed to make enquiries as to that matter in circumstances in
which a reasonable person would have done so.
(4) This Part shall only apply where the following conditions are
satisfied —
(a) the system operator is a financial market infrastructure which is
registered by the Commission to perform clearing and related functions such
as a central counterpart, a settlement agent or a clearing house;
(b) a clearing member of that financial market infrastructure has defaulted; and
(c) the transfer order has been entered into the system under the provisions
of the default rules of the financial market infrastructure that provide for the
transfer of the positions or assets of a clearing member on its default.
56. Insolvency proceedings shall not have retroactive effect on the rights No
and obligations of a participant arising from, or in connection with, its participation retroactive
in a system earlier than the moment of opening of such proceedings. effect on
proceedings
57.—(1) Terms used in this Part shall be construed as defined in section Terms used
357 of this Act. in this Part
(2) Any financial market infrastructure registered by the Commission to
perform clearing and related functions such as a central counterpart, a settlement
agent or a clearing house shall be treated as the system operator for the purpose
of this Part.
E — MATTERS RELATING TO INSOLVENCY LAWS IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS
58. A court shall not, under any law, give effect to any — Insolvency
laws in other
(a) order of a court exercising jurisdiction in relation to the law of insolvency
jurisdictions
in a place outside Nigeria; or
(b) act of a person appointed outside Nigeria to perform any function
under the law of insolvency in a place outside Nigeria, if the making of the
order or the performance of the act is prohibited, in the case of a court within
Nigeria or an official receiver or liquidator by provisions made by or under
sub-part C and D of Part V of this Act:
Provided that the making of the order or the doing of the act would be prohibited
in the case of a court within Nigeria or an official receiver or liquidator by
provisions made by or under sub-part C and D of Part V of this Act.
A 72 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
F — SELF-REGULATORY ORGANISATIONS AND TRADE ASSOCIATIONS
Registration 59.—(1) An entity, trade group or association shall not operate or hold
of a self- itself out as a self-regulatory organisation unless registered as such by the
regulatory
Commission upon fulfilment of the conditions as the Commission may prescribe.
organisation
(2) The Commission shall register an entity as a self-regulatory organisation,
where the Commission is satisfied that such entity is able to discharge the
obligations of a self-regulatory organisation under this Act and the rules and
regulations made under it.
(3) Upon receipt of a no objection from the Commission, an entity registered
under subsection (2) may, under the terms of an agreement with another self-
regulatory organisation, take-over some or all of the obligations of such self-
regulatory organisation under this Act, the rules and regulations made under it or
the rules of that self-regulatory organisation or such other laws or rules as may
be applicable to that self-regulatory organisation.
(4) The Commission may permit the merger of self-regulatory organisations
in the overall interest of the capital market.
(5) A self-regulatory organisation shall perform regulatory functions to
the extent that the Commission may prescribe.
(6) A decision of a self-regulatory organisation on any aggrieved person
shall be subject to review by the Commission.
Duties of a 60. A self-regulatory organisation or trade association shall —
registered
(a) at all times act in the public interest to ensure the integrity of the
self-
market and the protection of investors;
regulatory
organisation (b) supervise the conduct of its members to ensure a fair, orderly and
efficient market;
(c) immediately notify the Commission if it becomes aware of any matter
which adversely affects or is likely to adversely affect the interests of the market
or the investing public;
(d) immediately notify the Commission if it becomes aware of any
contravention by its members of any provision of this Act or the rules and
regulations made under it; and
(e) not make a decision under its rules that adversely affects the rights of
a member unless it has given the affected member an opportunity to make
representations to it about the matter.
PART VI — REGISTRATION AND REGULATION OF CAPITAL MARKET OPERATORS
Registration 61.—(1) A person shall not operate in the Nigerian capital market or carry
of capital on investments and securities business unless the person is registered in
market
accordance with this Act and the rules and regulations made under it.
operators
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 73
(2) The Commission shall prescribe the conditions for registration including
qualifications and skills required to operate in the Nigerian capital market.
(3) An application for registration under this Part shall be in the manner
and upon payment of the fees prescribed by the Commission.
(4) Any person who violates the provisions of subsection (1), commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N5,000,000 or
imprisonment for a term of not less than five years or both.
(5) The Commission may in lieu of prosecution consider an application
from any entity which has violated the provisions of this section, and upon
payment of an appropriate penalty as may be determined by the Commission,
and fulfilment of other conditions of registration, register such entity.
(6) The Commission may suspend or revoke a certificate of registration
issued under this section for a violation of any provision of this Act or regulations
made under it, provided that the person concerned has been given a reasonable
opportunity of being heard.
62.—(1) The appointment of the chief executive and other principal officers Appointment
of a capital market operator shall be subject to the prior notification and ratification and removal
by the Commission. of chief
executive
(2) The Commission may suspend or remove the chief executive or a and principal
principal officer of a capital market operator, if it is satisfied that such officer officers of a
has contravened, failed, or refused to comply with the provisions of this Act or capital
market
any rules and regulations of the Commission.
operator
63.—(1) A capital market operator shall keep or cause to be kept such Accounts to
accounting and other records — be kept by
capital
(a) as shall sufficiently show and explain the transactions and financial
market
position of his business and enable true and fair profit and loss accounts and operator
balance sheets to be prepared, regularly; and
(b) in a manner that shall enable them to be conveniently and properly
audited.
(2) A capital market operator shall be deemed not to have complied with
subsection (1) in relation to records unless the accounting and other records of
the capital market operator —
(a) are kept in sufficient detail to show particulars of all —
(i) money received or paid by the capital market operator, including
money paid to or disbursed from a trust account,
(ii) purchases and sales of securities made by the capital market operator,
the charges and credits arising from them, and the names of the buyers
and sellers, respectively of each of those securities,
A 74 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(iii) income received from commissions, interest, and other sources,
and all expenses, commissions, and interest paid by the capital market
operator,
(iv) the assets and liabilities, including contingent liabilities, of the capital
market operator,
(v) securities which are the property of the capital market operator
showing by whom the securities or the documents of title to the securities
are held and, where they are held by some other person, whether or not
they are held as securities against loans or advances,
(vi) securities that are not the property of the capital market operator
and for which the dealer or any nominee controlled by the security dealer
is accountable, showing by whom, and for whom, the securities or the
documents of title to the securities are held and the extent to which they
are either held for safe custody or deposited with a third party as securities
for loans or advances made to the capital market operator,
(vii) purchases and sales of options made by the capital market operator
and all fees (being options money) arising from them,
(viii) arbitrage transactions entered into by the capital market operator,
and
(ix) underwriting transactions entered into by the capital market operator;
(b) are kept in sufficient detail to show particulars of every transaction by
the capital market operator;
(c) specify the day on which or the period during which each transaction
by the capital market operator took place; and
(d) contain copies of acknowledgements of the receipt of securities or of
documents of title to securities received by the capital market operator from
clients for sale or safe custody clearly showing the name in which the particular
securities are registered.
(3) Without prejudice to subsection (2), a capital market operator shall
keep records in sufficient detail to show particulars of all transactions by the
capital market operator with or for the account of —
(a) clients of the capital market operator;
(b) the capital market operator himself; and
(c) employees of the capital market operator.
(4) A director or an officer of a capital market operator who contravenes
or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this section, commits an offence
and is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N2,000,000 or imprisonment
for a term of not less than one year.
(5) The Commission may, in lieu of prosecution for the offence prescribed
in subsection (4), sanction a director or an officer of a capital market operator
who violates the provisions of this section by imposing an administrative fine of
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 75
not less than N2,000,000 and a further sum of not less than N5,000 for every
day in which the violation continues.
64.—(1) A capital market operator shall maintain separate accounts for Maintenance
transactions carried out on behalf of different clients. of separate
accounts and
(2) Except as may be otherwise provided in this Act, no capital market
payment
operator shall mix the proceeds of the account of a client with other accounts into certain
whether belonging to the capital market operator or his clients. trust
accounts
(3) A capital market operator shall establish and keep in a bank one or
more trust accounts to be designated or evidenced as trust accounts, into which
the capital market operator shall pay all amounts (less any brokerage and other
proper charges) received —
(a) from or on account of any person (other than a capital market operator)
for the purchase of securities which are not attributable to securities delivered
to the capital market operator; and
(b) for or on account of any person (other than a capital market operator)
from the sale of securities which are not paid to that person or as that person
directs not later than the next business day following the day on which they
were received by the capital market operator.
(4) The payment of amounts required by subsection (3) to be made by a
capital market operator shall be made by the capital market operator not later
than the next business day following the day on which the amounts were received
by the capital market operator.
(5) A capital market operator who contravenes or fails to comply with any
of the provisions of this section is liable to a penalty of not less than N2,000,000
and a further sum of N5,000 for every day the violation continues.
65.—(1) A capital market operator who withdraws money from a trust Penalty for
account without the requisite authority commits an offence and is liable on withdrawing
conviction to a fine of not less than N5,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of money from
trust account
not less than one year or both.
without
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), a withdrawal from a trust account authority
shall be deemed to be without requisite authority where the withdrawal is made
for a purpose other than —
(a) to pay the person entitled to the payment;
(b) to defray brokerage and other proper charges; or
(c) as may otherwise be authorised by law.
(3) The Commission may, in lieu of prosecution for the offence prescribed
under subsection (1), sanction a capital market operator who violates the
provisions of this section by imposing a penalty of not less than N5,000,000.
A 76 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(4) In addition to the penalty prescribed under subsection (3), the
Commission shall direct the capital market operator to refund the money received
together with the interest at a rate to be determined by the Commission.
Money in 66. A capital market operator shall not, except as otherwise provided in
trust account this Part, utilise any money held in a trust account for purposes other than the
not available purpose of the trust.
for personal
use
Claims and 67. Nothing in this section shall be construed as taking away or affecting
lien not any lawful claim or lien which a person may have against or upon any money
affected
held in a trust account or against or upon any money received for the purchase
of securities or from the sale of securities before such money are paid into a
trust account and shall not be affected by the provisions of sections 64, 65 and
66 of this Act.
Right to 68.—(1) A capital market operator or depository shall supply on demand
copies of to his client copies of all entries in his books relating to any transaction carried
book entries out on behalf of that client and the capital market operator shall be entitled to
of
levy a reasonable charge.
transactions
and to (2) A client or any person authorised by the client shall be entitled at any
inspect time, free of charge either personally or by his agent, to inspect any contract
contract
notes and vouchers relating to the transaction.
notes
Register of 69.—(1) A capital market operator shall keep a register, in the prescribed
securities form, of the securities in which he has an interest.
(2) Particulars of the securities in which a capital market operator has an
interest shall be entered in the register within seven days of the acquisition of the
interest.
(3) Where a change in securities, not being a prescribed change, occurs in
the interest of a person to whom this Part applies, he shall, within seven days
after the change, enter in the register full particulars of the change, including the
date of the change and the reason for the change.
(4) For the purposes of this subsection, an acquisition or disposal of
securities shall be deemed to be a change in the interest of a person.
(5) The Commission may extend the provisions of subsection (1) to include
any other person whose activities are connected with securities transactions.
Particulars 70.—(1) A capital market operator to whom this Part applies shall in
of register the prescribed form, give notice to the Commission of such particulars relating
to the register of securities as may be prescribed including the location of
the register.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 77
(2) The notice required to be given under subsection (1) shall be given in —
(a) the case of a person who is required by this Act to hold the
Commission’s registration; and
(b) any other case, within 14 days after becoming a person to whom this
Part applies.
(3) A person to whom this Part applies shall, within 14 days of his ceasing
to be such a person give to the Commission the notice required under subsection
(1) and the notice of the cessation.
(4) A person who fails or neglects to give the notice required under this
section commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than
N1,000,000.
(5) The Commission may, in lieu of prosecution under subsection (4),
impose a penalty of not less than N1,000,000 and a further sum of not less than
N5,000 for every day the violation continues.
71.—(1) The Commission or any person authorised by it may require any Production
person to whom this Part applies to produce for inspection, the register required of register
to be kept under section 69 of this Act and the Commission or any person so
authorised may take extracts from it.
(2) Any person who fails to produce a register for inspection or fails to
allow any person authorised under subsection (1) to make a copy of or take
extracts from the register commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a
fine of not less than N500,000.
(3) The Commission may, in lieu of prosecution under subsection (2),
impose a penalty of not less than N500,000 and a further sum of N5,000 for
every day during which the violation continues.
72. The Commission may supply a copy of the extract of a register obtained Extracts of
under section 71 (1) of this Act to any person who, in the opinion of the register
Commission, and in the public interest is to be informed of the dealings in securities
disclosed in the register.
PART VII — INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS
73.—(1) The Commission shall conduct routine and special inspection Designation
and investigation of regulated entities. of staff of
the
(2) Staff of the Commission shall be assigned responsibility for the
Commission
inspection and investigation of all regulated entities. for
supervision
(3) The staff shall discharge supervisory duties in respect of all regulated
of all
entities and for that purpose shall —
regulated
(a) have a right of access at all times to the records, books, accounts and entities and
securities
vouchers of regulated entities;
exchanges
A 78 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(b) examine periodically the records, books and affairs of regulated
entities; and
(c) require from directors, managers and employees of regulated entities
such information and explanation as may be deemed necessary to the discharge
of their duties under this Act.
(4) Regulated entities shall produce to the examiners at such times as the
examiners may specify, all records, books, accounts, documents and information
which they may require.
(5) For the purpose of this Part, references to examiners are references to
the staff referred to in subsection (2).
(6) This Part shall also apply to an associated person as defined in this
Act.
Routine 74. The Commission shall, in the case of routine examinations, forward
examination a copy of the report arising from the examination together with its
and report recommendations, to the regulated entity concerned with instruction that it
be placed before the meeting of the board of directors of the regulated entity
specially convened for the purpose of considering the report and the
recommendations on it.
Special 75.—(1) The Commission shall order a special examination or investigation
examination of the records, books and affairs of a regulated entity where it is satisfied that —
(a) it is in the public interest to do so;
(b) the regulated entity has been carrying on its business in a manner
detrimental to the interest of its clients, beneficiaries and creditors;
(c) the regulated entity has insufficient assets to cover its liabilities to the
clients, beneficiaries and creditors;
(d) the regulated entity has been contravening the provisions of this Act or
the rules and regulations made under it; or
(e) an application is made for it by —
(i) a director or shareholder of the regulated entity, or
(ii) a client, beneficiary or creditor of the regulated entity:
Provided that in the case of paragraph (e), the Commission may not order a
special examination or investigation of the records, books and affairs of a regulated
entity if the Commission is satisfied that it is not necessary to do so.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the Commission may appoint one or
more qualified persons other than or in addition to its staff to conduct special
examination or investigation, under conditions of confidentiality, of the records,
books and affairs of the regulated entity.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 79
76.—(1) Where, after an examination under section 75 of this Act, the Failing
Commission is satisfied that the regulated entity is in a grave situation as regards regulated
the matters referred to under section 75(1), or the regulated entity informs the entity
Commission that it is —
(a) likely to become unable to meet its obligations under this Act,
(b) about to suspend its obligations to any extent, or
(c) insolvent,
the Commission may exercise any of the powers specified in subsection (2).
(2) The Commission may, in addition to all other powers under this Act —
(a) prohibit the regulated entity from receiving funds or other assets from
the public for a period as may be set by the Commission, and make the
prohibition subject to such exceptions, and impose such conditions in relation
to the exceptions as may be prescribed by the Commission;
(b) require the regulated entity to take any step or action or to refrain from
taking any step or action, in relation to its operations, directors, or officers as
may be stipulated by the Commission;
(c) remove for reasons to be recorded in writing, with effect from such
date as may be set out in the notice, any director, manager or officer of the
regulated entity notwithstanding any written law, or any limitations contained
in the memorandum and articles of association of the regulated entity;
(d) in respect of a regulated entity notwithstanding any written law or any
limitations contained in the memorandum and articles of association of the
regulated entity and for reasons to be recorded in writing —
(i) remove from office, with effect from the date as may be specified
by the Commission, any director or officer of the regulated entity, or
(ii) appoint any person to manage the affairs of the regulated entity in the
interim, and provide for the person so appointed to be paid by the regulated
entity the remuneration as may be determined by the Commission; or
(e) appoint any qualified person to advise the regulated entity in relation to
the proper conduct of its business, and provide for the person so appointed to
be paid by the regulated entity, such remuneration as may be determined by
the Commission.
77.—(1) Where, after taking steps under section 75 of this Act, the Control of
Commission is of the opinion that the state of affairs of the regulated entity failing
concerned has not improved significantly, the Commission may assume control regulated
entity
of the regulated entity or appoint persons to do so on its behalf.
(2) Where the Commission or an appointed person has assumed control
of the business of a regulated entity under subsection (1), the regulated entity
shall submit its capital market business to the control of the Commission and
A 80 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
shall provide the Commission or the appointed person with such facilities as the
Commission or the appointed person may require to carry on the business of the
regulated entity.
(3) A regulated entity shall cooperate with the Commission at all times.
Management 78.—(1) The Commission or an appointed person that assumes control of
of failing the business of a regulated entity, shall remain in control until the Commission is
regulated
satisfied that —
entity
(a) adequate provision has been made for the repayment of investors; or
(b) it is no longer necessary to remain in control of the business of the
regulated entity.
(2) The cost and expenses of the Commission and an appointed person,
may be payable from the funds and properties of the regulated entity as a first
line charge.
Control of 79. Notwithstanding anything contained in any law or memorandum and
regulated articles of association of a regulated entity, where the Commission or an appointed
entity with
person has assumed control of a regulated entity whose paid-up capital is lost,
lost paid up
the Commission may revoke the registration of the regulated entity, and take
capital
reasonable steps to protect the assets of investors.
Power of 80.—(1) In relation to the inspection and investigation of the affairs of a
examiners in regulated entity an examiner may —
relation to
other (a) summon any person, to provide information relating to the affairs of
persons the regulated entity or to produce such document to the examiner or to appear
at a time and place specified in the summons to be examined and produce
such document;
(b) retain the document received as may be required for purposes of the
inspection or any legal or regulatory proceedings;
(c) administer an oath or affirmation or otherwise examine any person
referred to in paragraph (a); or
(d) on the authority of an order issued by the Tribunal —
(i) enter any premises and demand for the production of any document
relating to the affairs of the regulated entity,
(ii) enter and search any premises for any document relating to the
affairs of the regulated entity,
(iii) examine, make extracts from and copy any document relating to
the affairs of the regulated entity or, remove such document temporarily
for that purpose,
(iv) seize any document relating to the affairs of the regulated entity as
the examiner may consider necessary, or
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 81
(v) retain any seized document for as long as it may be required for
criminal or other proceedings:
Provided that an examiner may proceed without the order, if the person in control
of any premises consents to the actions contemplated in this paragraph.
(2) An order provided in subsection (1)(b) shall be issued, on application
by the Commission to the Tribunal.
(3) The order under subsection (2) may only be issued if it appears from
information under oath that there is reason to believe that a document relating to
the affairs of the regulated entity being inspected is kept at the premises or in the
custody of the person concerned.
(4) A person whose document has been removed or retained, or from
whom a document has been seized under subsection (1) or his authorised
representative, may examine, copy such document and make extracts from it
under the supervision of the examiner.
81.—(1) Where the Commission makes an order revoking the registration Application
of a regulated entity and requiring the business of that regulated entity to be to the
wound up, the regulated entity shall, within 14 days of the date of the order, Federal High
Court for
apply to the Federal High Court for an order of winding up of its affairs and the
winding up
Federal High Court shall hear the application in priority to all other matters.
(2) Where the regulated entity fails to apply to the Federal High Court
within the period specified in subsection (1), the Commission may apply to the
Federal High Court for the winding up of the regulated entity.
(3) The Commission, if satisfied that it is in the public interest to do so,
may, without waiting for the period mentioned in subsection (1) to elapse, appoint
any person as the official receiver or provisional liquidator and the person so
appointed shall have the power conferred by or under the Companies and Allied
Matters Act and shall be deemed to have been appointed official receiver or
provisional liquidator by the Federal High Court for the purpose of that Act.
(4) This section shall have effect and the provisions of the Companies and
Allied Matters Act on winding up shall be construed as if the cancellation of the
registration of a regulated entity under this Act had been included as a ground
for winding up by the Federal High Court under this section.
(5) The official receiver or provisional liquidator of a regulated entity shall
forward to the Commission copies of any returns which he is required to make
under the Companies and Allied Matters Act.
A 82 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
PART VIII — MANAGEMENT OF SYSTEMIC RISK
Request for 82.—(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, the Commission
information may, by notice in writing, request any capital market participant to submit any
in respect of
information or document —
systemic
risk (a) which the Commission considers necessary for the purpose of
monitoring, mitigating and managing systemic risks in the capital market; or
(b) where the Commission receives a request from a financial sector
regulator.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), where the primary business
operations of the relevant capital market participant are under the regulatory
purview of another financial sector regulator, the Commission shall liaise and
cooperate with such regulator for the purpose of issuing the directive.
(3) Where a notice is issued to a capital market participant under subsection
(1), the capital market participant shall provide the required information or
document notwithstanding any obligation under any contract, agreement or
arrangement whether express or implied to the contrary.
(4) A capital market participant who fails to comply with a notice issued
under subsection (1) is liable to a penalty of not less than N20,000,000 and a
further penalty of not less than N50,000 for every day that the violation continues,
and in the case of a director, or principal officer of an entity, is liable on conviction
to a fine of not less than N5,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of one year.
Power of the 83.—(1) The Commission may issue a directive in writing requiring a
Commission capital market participant to take such measures as may be deemed necessary in
to issue the interest of monitoring, mitigating or managing systemic risk in the capital
directive for
market or in the interest of the public.
management
of systemic (2) The Commission may, without notice or a hearing, issue a directive or
risk an order under this subsection to suspend trading in a security or related derivative,
or to suspend all trading on a recognised exchange or otherwise, if in the opinion
of the Commission —
(a) there is systemic risk requiring immediate action to be taken in the
public interest; and
(b) the order is necessary to maintain or restore fair and orderly securities
markets, to ensure prompt, accurate and safe clearance and settlement of
transactions in securities or to assist in doing so in another jurisdiction.
(3) In exercising its power under this section, the Commission shall also
take into consideration the financial stability of the capital market, and the directive
shall take effect immediately.
(4) For the purpose of issuing a directive under subsection (1), where the
primary business operations of the capital market participant concerned is under
the regulatory purview of another financial sector regulator, the Commission
shall liaise and cooperate with such regulator.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 83
(5) Where a directive has been issued under subsection (2), the capital
market participant or any person directly affected by the order and who consider
themselves aggrieved by it, shall nonetheless be given an opportunity to be heard
within 14 working days after making oral or written representations to the
Commission.
(6) A directive issued under subsection (2) may be amended or modified
after the capital market participant or aggrieved person has been given an
opportunity to be heard under subsection (5).
(7) A capital market participant, its officers or any person who fails to
comply with the notice issued under subsection (1), is liable to a penalty of not
less than N5,000,000 and a further penalty of not less than N10,000 for every
day that the violation continues.
84.—(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, the Commission Arrangements
may for the purpose of monitoring, mitigating and managing systemic risk in the with other
supervisory
capital market or contributing towards financial stability —
authorities
(a) provide assistance to any financial sector regulator;
(b) obtain any information or document from, or share any information or
document with, any financial sector regulator if the Commission considers it
necessary that such information or document be so obtained or shared in
managing systemic risk in the capital market or promoting financial stability; or
(c) enter into arrangements to cooperate with any financial sector regulator
to co-ordinate stability measures.
(2) Where the Commission shares any information or documents with
any financial sector regulator, such financial sector regulator shall give an
appropriate undertaking for protecting the confidentiality of such information or
document and the purpose for which the information or document may be used.
85. Terms used in this Part shall be construed as defined in section 357 of Terms used
this Act. in this Part
PART IX — REGULATION OF SECURITIES
A — REGISTRATION OF SECURITIES
86.—(1) All securities to be issued under this Act shall be registered with Registration
the Commission under the terms and conditions contained in this Act and the of securities
rules and regulations made under it. to be issued
under this
(2) The issuer shall file with the Commission a registration statement Act
which shall contain such information and shall be signed by such persons as the
Commission may prescribe.
(3) A registration statement shall be deemed effective only as to the securities
specified in it as proposed to be issued.
A 84 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(4) The Commission shall issue a certificate of registration in respect of
securities registered by it.
(5) Securities shall not be issued, transferred, sold, or offered for
subscription or sale to the public without the prior registration of the securities
with the Commission.
(6) A person who proposes to make available, offer for subscription
or purchase, or issue an invitation to subscribe for or purchase, outside
Nigeria, securities of a public company or other securities to be registered
under this Act, or to list such securities on a securities exchange outside
Nigeria shall seek the prior approval of the Commission and where applicable,
report to a securities exchange registered with the Commission.
(7) A person who issues, transfers, sells, or offers securities for subscription
or sale to the public, without the prior registration of the securities with the
Commission commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not less
than 50% of the value of the securities offered to the public, and in the case of
a director or relevant principal officer of the entity, a fine of not less than 10% of
the value of the securities offered to the public or imprisonment for a term of
not less than five years.
(8) The Commission may, in lieu of a prosecution under subsection (7),
direct the affected entity or individual to refund the money received together
with interest on it at the prevailing commercial bank rate.
Electronic 87.—(1) Securities registered by the Commission, may be issued or
and other transferred electronically or by any other means or system approved by the
means of
Commission under such terms and conditions as the Commission may prescribe.
issuing and
transferring (2) The Commission shall prescribe the documents and information to be
securities provided by the issuer, an issuing house, stockbroker or any other person
authorised by the Commission to offer securities for sale or subscription to the
public.
B — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OF PUBLIC COMPANIES
Filing of 88.—(1) A public company whose securities are required to be registered
annual and under this Act shall file with the Commission on an annual basis, its audited
periodic
financial statements and such other periodic returns as may be prescribed by the
reports with
Commission.
the
Commission (2) The chief executive officer and the chief financial officer or officers
or persons performing similar functions in a public company filing periodic or
annual reports under subsection (1), shall certify in each annual or periodic
report filed, that —
(a) the signing officer has reviewed the report;
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 85
(b) based on the knowledge of the officer, the report does not —
(i) contain any untrue statement of a material fact, or
(ii) omit to state a material fact, which may make the statement,
misleading in the light of the circumstances under which such statement
was made;
(c) based on the knowledge of such officer, the financial statements and
other financial information included in the report fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition and results of operations of the company as
of, and for the period presented in the report;
(d) the signing officers —
(i) are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal controls,
(ii) have established such internal controls to ensure that material
information relating to the company and its consolidated subsidiaries is
made known to such officers by others within those entities particularly
during the period in which the periodic reports are being prepared,
(iii) have evaluated the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls
as of date within 90 days prior to the report, and
(iv) have presented in the report their conclusions about the
effectiveness of their internal controls based on their evaluation as of that
date;
(e) the signing officers have disclosed to the auditors of the company and
audit committee —
(i) all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
controls which may adversely affect the company’s ability to record,
process, summarise and report financial data and have identified for the
company’s auditors any material weakness in internal controls, and
(ii) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have significant role in the company’s internal controls;
and
(f ) the signing officers have identified in the report whether or not there
were significant changes in internal controls or other factors that may
significantly affect internal controls subsequent to the date of their evaluation,
including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and
material weaknesses.
89.—(1) A public company shall establish a system of internal controls System of
over its financial reporting and security of its assets and the board of directors internal
shall ensure the integrity of the company’s internal controls and reporting. control of
public
(2) The board of directors of a public company shall report on the companies
effectiveness of the company’s internal control system in its annual report.
(3) In this section, “internal control” means policies, procedures and
practices prescribed by management to ensure safety of assets, accuracy of
A 86 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
financial records and reports, achievement of corporate objectives and compliance
with laws, regulations and applicable corporate governance standards.
(4) A public company which contravenes the provisions of section 88
and this section, is liable to a penalty of not less than N5,000,000 and a further
penalty of N50,000 per day for every day the violation continues.
Auditors of 90. A person shall not carry on the business of auditing of a public company
public unless that person is registered by the Commission on such terms and conditions
companies as may be prescribed.
to register
with the
Commission
Duty of 91. An auditor of a public company shall, in his audit report to the company,
auditor to issue a statement as to the existence, adequacy and effectiveness or otherwise
report on of the internal control system of the public company.
internal
controls of
public
companies
Penalties for 92.—(1) A public company which appoints an auditor that is not registered
non- with the Commission is liable to a penalty of not less than N5,000,000 and a
compliance further penalty of N50,000 per day for the period the violation continues.
with
sections 90 (2) An auditor who contravenes the provisions of sections 90 and 91 is
and 91 liable to a penalty of not less than N1,000,000 and a further penalty of N5,000
per day for the period the violation continues.
C — TREATMENT OF UNCLAIMED DIVIDENDS OF PUBLIC COMPANIES
Unclaimed 93.—(1) Unclaimed dividends under the regulatory purview of the
dividends of Commission shall be treated as prescribed in the rules and regulations made
public
under this Act.
companies
(2) A person shall not treat unclaimed dividend as prescribed in subsection
(1) in a manner other than as prescribed in the rules and regulations made under
this Act.
(3) A person who contravenes this section or the rules and regulations
made under this Act, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of
not less than N10,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of not less than five years
or both.
(4) The Commission may, in lieu of prosecution, sanction a person who
violates the provisions of this section and the rules and regulations made under
it, to a penalty of not less than N10,000,000 and N50,000 per day for every day
the violation continues.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 87
D — GENERAL PROVISIONS
94. Where a contravention of any provision under this Part is Contravention
committed by a body corporate and it is proved that the contravention has of this Part
been committed — by a body
corporate
(a) with the connivance of, or as a result of any neglect on the part of a
director, manager, secretary or other similar officer, servant or agent of the
body corporate or any person purporting to act in any such capacity, or
(b) as a result of a director, manager, secretary or other similar officer,
servant or agent of the body corporate or any person purporting to act in any
such capacity, knowingly or wilfully authorising the contravention,
the director, manager, secretary or other similar officer, servant or agent of the
body corporate or any person purporting to act in any such capacity shall be
deemed liable to the same extent as the body corporate.
E — INVITATIONS TO THE PUBLIC
95.—(1) A person shall not make any invitation to the public to acquire or Control of
dispose of any securities or to deposit money with any body corporate for a invitations
fixed period or payable at call, whether bearing or not bearing interest unless the to the public
person or body corporate concerned is —
(a) a public company and the securities it seeks to offer to the public have
been registered with the Commission;
(b) a statutory body or bank established by or under an Act of the National
Assembly and is empowered to accept deposits and savings from the public
or issue its own securities, as defined under this Act, promissory notes, bills
of exchange and other instruments;
(c) an entity licensed by the Central Bank of Nigeria and empowered to
accept deposits and savings from the public;
(d) a collective investment scheme;
(e) government body or an agency of a government body, supranational
body or such other entity approved by the Commission to issue securities
under this Act; or
(f ) a free trade zone entity whose capital raising exercise has been approved
by the Commission:
Provided that where the Commission approves a capital raising exercise by an
entity operating within a free trade zone, such entity shall thereupon become
subject to relevant tax laws and regulations in Nigeria, and nothing in this
subsection shall render unlawful the sale of any shares by or under the supervision
of any court or tribunal as may be authorised by law.
(2) The term commercial or investment business activities referred to in
subsection (1) means any activity relating to micro, small and medium scale
enterprise, venture capital and private equity funding or such other commercial
or investment business activities as the Commission may determine.
A 88 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(3) The provisions of section 142 of Companies and Allied Matters Act,
shall not be applicable to issuers of securities under this Act.
(4) Where an invitation to the public is made in breach of subsection (1),
all persons making the invitation and every officer who is in default or any body
corporate making the invitation shall each be separately liable to a penalty of at
least 10% of the gross value of the securities or deposits received in the case of
a body corporate and N2,000,000 in the case of an individual.
(5) Where, any person acquires or disposes of securities, or deposits
money with any company, as a result of any invitation to the public made in
breach of subsection (1), he shall be entitled to —
(a) rescind such transactions; and
(b) either in addition to or in place of rescinding the transaction, recover
compensation for any loss sustained by him from any person who is liable in
respect of the breach.
(6) Where, in accordance with subsection (5), a person claims to rescind
any transaction, he shall do so within a reasonable time and shall not be entitled
to rescind any transaction with the body corporate or to recover compensation
from it unless he takes steps to rescind the transaction before the commencement
of the winding-up of the body corporate:
Provided that the application of this subsection to bar the right of a claimant to
rescind a transaction shall not prejudice his right to recover compensation from
any person other than the body corporate.
Invitation to 96.—(1) A person making an invitation to the public to deposit money
the public to with it shall, prior to the making of the invitation, obtain the written consent of
deposit
the Commission and shall only make the invitation in accordance with such
money
conditions and restrictions as may be imposed by the Commission.
(2) The Commission may grant or withhold the consent referred to under
subsection (1) and may require that any advertisement or circular to be used in
connection with the invitation shall be registered with or approved by the
Commission.
(3) Where any advertisement or circular used in connection with the
invitation contains any untrue statement, subject to subsection (4), any person
who made the invitation and every person who was a director of a company
making the invitation at the time the advertisement or circular was published is
liable to pay compensation within one month to any person who deposited money
with the body corporate having relied on the advertisement or circular, for any
loss they may have sustained by reason of such untrue statement.
(4) A person shall not be liable under subsection (3), if he proves that —
(a) he had reasonable ground to believe and did believe up to the time of
publication of the advertisement or circular that the statement was true; or
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 89
(b) the advertisement or circular was published without his knowledge
and that on becoming aware of its publication he immediately gave reasonable
public notice that it was published without his knowledge.
(5) Where any person or body corporate deposits any money with a body
corporate as a result of an untrue statement of a material fact made, whether
innocently or fraudulently, in any advertisement or circular published in connection
with any invitation to the public made by or on behalf of that body corporate, the
person shall be entitled to require that person or the body corporate immediately
to repay such money with interest at the current interbank rate per annum or
such higher rate as may have been agreed to be paid on the deposit.
97.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, an invitation shall be deemed to be an Meaning of
invitation to the public if it is an offer or invitation to make an offer which is — invitation to
the public
(a) published, advertised or disseminated by newspaper, broadcasting,
cinematograph, electronic or any other means;
(b) made to or circulated among persons whether selected as members or
as debenture holders of the company concerned or as clients of the persons
making or circulating the invitation or in any other manner;
(c) made to one or more persons upon the terms that the person to whom
it is made may renounce or assign the benefit of the offer or invitation or any
of the securities to be obtained under it in favour of any other person; or
(d) made to one or more persons to acquire securities dealt in by a securities
exchange or in respect of which the invitation states that an application has
been or shall be made for permission to deal in those securities on a securities
exchange.
(2) Nothing contained in this section shall be taken as requiring any invitation
to be treated as an invitation to the public if it can properly be regarded in all
circumstances as not being calculated to result, directly or indirectly, in the
securities becoming available for subscription or purchase by persons other
than those receiving the offer or invitation, or otherwise as being a domestic
concern of the persons making and receiving it.
(3) For the purpose of this section, the issuance of any form of application
for securities or of any form to be completed on the deposit of money with a
company shall be deemed to be an invitation to acquire those shares or to deposit
money.
98. Where an issuer allots or agrees to allot any of its securities to any Offers for
person with a view to the public being invited to acquire any of those securities, sale deemed
for the purposes of this Act, any invitation so made shall be deemed to be an to be made
invitation to the public by the issuer as well as by the person actually making the by an issuer
invitation, and a person who acquires any such securities in response to the
invitation shall be deemed to be an allottee from the company of those securities:
A 90 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Provided that where —
(a) an invitation to the public is made in respect of such securities within
six months after the allotment or agreement to allot, or
(b) at the date when the invitation to the public was made, the whole
consideration to be received by the issuer in respect of those securities had
not been so received,
it shall be deemed, unless the contrary is proved, that the allotment or agreement
to allot was made by the issuer with a view to an invitation to the public being
made in respect of those securities.
Form of 99.—(1) Subject to the provisions of section 104 of this Act, a person
application shall not issue any form of application to deposit money for the purpose of
for shares to subscribing to, purchasing or in any way acquiring the securities of a body
be issued
corporate unless the form is issued with a prospectus which complies with the
with
requirements of section 107 of this Act.
prospectus
(2) Where the form of application to deposit money referred to in subsection
(1) is issued in respect of debenture securities, the form shall in addition be
accompanied with a trust deed or agency agreement.
(3) This section shall not apply if it is shown that the form of application
was issued either in —
(a) connection with an invitation made in good faith to a person to enter
into an underwriting agreement with respect to the securities; or
(b) relation to securities which were not offered to the public.
(4) A person who contravenes the provisions of this section, commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N5,000,000 or
imprisonment for a term of not less than two years.
(5) The Commission may, in lieu of a prosecution under subsection (4),
impose a penalty of not less than N10,000,000 and a further sum of not less than
N20,000 for everyday which the violation continues.
Effective 100. A prospectus issued by or on behalf of an issuer or in relation to an
date of a intended issue shall be dated and that date shall, unless the contrary is proved, be
prospectus taken as the date of publication of the prospectus.
Contents of 101.—(1) Subject to the provisions of section 104 of this Act, every
a prospectus prospectus issued by or on behalf of a company, or by or on behalf of any
person or body corporate who is or has been engaged or interested in the formation
of the company, shall state the matters specified in Part I of the Third Schedule
to this Act and set out the reports specified in Part II of that Schedule.
(2) Any condition requiring or binding an applicant for securities to waive
compliance with any requirement of this section or purporting to affect him
with notice of any contract, document or matter not specifically referred to in
the prospectus, shall be void.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 91
(3) Where there is non-compliance with or contravention of any of the
requirements of this section, a director or other person responsible for the
prospectus shall not incur any liability by reason of the non-compliance or
contravention, if he proves that —
(a) as regards any matter not disclosed, he was not a party to it;
(b) the non-compliance or contravention arose from an honest mistake of
fact on his part; or
(c) the non-compliance or contravention was in respect of matters which,
were immaterial, having regard to all the circumstances of the case, and is to
be excused:
Provided that, where there is a failure to include in a prospectus a statement
with respect to the matters specified by regulations made under this Act, no
director or other person shall incur any liability in respect of the failure, unless it
is proved that he had knowledge of the matters not disclosed.
102. The provisions of sections 99 and 101 of this Act shall not apply to an Exemption
issue — from
application
(a) made to the existing members of a company or to a prospectus or
of
form of application relating to shares in the company whether or not an
provisions
applicant for shares has the right to renounce in favour of other persons; or relating to
prospectus
(b) of a prospectus or form of application relating to securities which are
in certain
to be in all respects uniform with securities previously issued and for the time
cases
being dealt in or quoted on a securities exchange.
103.—(1) A person shall not without the prior approval of the Commission Prohibition
issue, circulate, publish, disseminate or distribute any notice, circular or of issuance
advertisement to the public which — or
circulation
(a) offers for subscription or purchase of securities in a company; of certain
(b) invites subscription for or purchase of securities; or notices,
circulars and
(c) calls attention to —
advertisements
(i) an offer or intended offer for subscription or purchase of securities
in a company,
(ii) an invitation or intended invitation to subscribe for or purchase any
such securities, or
(iii) a prospectus.
(2) This section shall not apply to a —
(a) notice or circular which relates to an offer or invitation not made or
issued to the public;
(b) registered prospectus;
(c) notice, circular or advertisement which calls attention to a registered
prospectus and states that allotments of, or contracts with respect to the
A 92 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
securities referred to in the prospectus shall be made only on the basis of one
of the forms of application referred to in and attached to a copy of the
prospectus and contains no other information or matter other than some or all
of the following information —
(i) the number and description of the securities to which the prospectus
relates,
(ii) the name of the issuer, the date of its incorporation and the number
of the issuer’s issued securities and where the issue price of any securities
is to be paid by instalments, the amounts paid and unpaid on those issued
securities,
(iii) the general nature of its main business or the proposed main business
of the issuer,
(iv) the names, addresses and occupation of the directors or proposed
directors,
(v) the names and addresses of capital market operators to the issue,
(vi) the name of the securities exchange, if any, of which the brokers
and issuing houses to the issue are members or participants, and
(vii) particulars of the time and place at which copies of the registered
prospectus and form of application for the shares to which it relates may
be obtained; and
(d) notice or circular which —
(i) accompanies a notice or circular referred to in paragraphs (a) or (c),
(ii) is issued or circulated by a person whose ordinary business includes
advising clients in connection with their investments and is issued or
circulated only to clients so advised in the course of that business,
(iii) contains a statement that that person recommends the investment
to which it or the accompanying document relates, and
(iv) contains a statement that the person making the recommendation
is an underwriter or sub-underwriter as the case may be.
(3) This section applies to notices, circulars and advertisements published
or disseminated by a newspaper, radio or television broadcasting, cinematograph,
electronic media platforms, or any other means.
(4) A person who —
(a) contravenes the provisions of this section, or
(b) authorises or permits an act which constitutes a contravention of this
section,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N5,000,000
or imprisonment for a term of not less than three years or both.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 93
(5) The Commission may, in lieu of prosecution under subsection (4),
sanction a person who contravenes the provisions of this section by imposing a
penalty of not less than N50,000,000 and a further sum of not less than N20,000
for every day the violation continues.
(6) Where a notice, circular or advertisement relating to a company is
issued, circulated, published, disseminated or distributed in contravention of
this section by or with the authority or permission of an officer of the company,
the company is liable to a penalty of not less than N5,000,000 and a further sum
of not less than N5,000 for every day the violation continues.
104.—(1) Where it is proposed to offer any securities to the public by a Exemption
prospectus issued generally and an application is made to a securities exchange certificate
for permission for those securities to be dealt in or quoted on that securities and effect
exchange, the securities exchange may exempt the applicant from compliance
with the Third Schedule to this Act.
(2) In considering an application under subsection (1), the securities
exchange shall have regard to the proposal as stated in the request as to the size
and other circumstances of the issue of securities and as to any limitations on
the number and class of persons to whom the offer is to be made and if compliance
with the requirements of the Third Schedule will be unduly cumbersome.
105.—(1) A prospectus inviting persons to subscribe for securities of a Expert’s
company and including a statement purportedly made by an expert shall not be statement on
issued unless — prospectus
(a) the expert has given and has not, before delivery of a copy of the
prospectus for registration, withdrawn his written consent to the issue of the
statement included in the form and context in which it is; and
(b) a statement appears in the prospectus that the expert has given and has
not withdrawn his consent.
(2) Where any prospectus is issued in contravention of this section, the
company and every person who is a party to the issue commits an offence and
is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N2,000,000 or imprisonment for
a term of not less than three years or both.
(3) The Commission may, in lieu of prosecution for the offence prescribed
in subsection (2), impose a penalty of not less than N2,000,000 and a further
penalty of not less than N5,000 for every day the violation continues.
106. Notwithstanding the provisions of section 95 of this Act, no person Prospectus
shall make an invitation to the public to acquire or dispose of any securities on invitation
except — to the public
to acquire or
(a) within six months prior to the making of the invitation, a prospectus
dispose of
relating to such securities and complying in all respects with the relevant provisions securities
A 94 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
of sections 103, 104 and 107 of this Act has been delivered to the Commission
and registered by it, in accordance with section 108 of this Act; and
(b) every person to whom the invitation is made is supplied with a certified
true copy of such prospectus as filed with the Commission.
General and 107.—(1) Except as provided in section 104 of this Act, where an issuer
restricted invites the public to acquire its securities, the prospectus referred to in section
invitations
101 of this Act shall state the matters specified in Part 1 of the Third Schedule to
to the public
this Act and set out the report specified in Part II of that Schedule.
(2) Subsection (1) shall not apply to an invitation by an issuer in respect of
its shares —
(a) made solely to the existing shareholders of that issuer; or
(b) which in all respects is uniform with its existing listed shares.
(3) A prospectus relating to any invitation to the public to acquire or dispose
of any securities of an issuer, being an invitation not falling within subsection (1)
either because it does not invite the public to acquire any securities or because it is
excluded from the ambit of that subsection, may not state all the matters or set out
the reports specified in the Third Schedule to this Act but shall not contain any
untrue statement, and if the securities to which it relates are dealt in on any securities
exchange or if application has been, or is being made to a securities exchange for
permission to deal in those securities, the prospectus shall —
(a) state that the securities to be dealt in on that securities exchange or, as
the case may be, that application has been or is to be made for permission for
the securities to be dealt in on that securities exchange;
(b) state whether or not that securities exchange is an approved trading
facility within the meaning of this Act; and
(c) contain the particulars and information required by that securities
exchange.
(4) An invitation falling within subsection (1) shall, in this Act be described
as a “general invitation” and an invitation falling within subsection (2) shall, in
this Act be described as a” restricted invitation”.
Registration 108.—(1) A prospectus shall not be issued by or on behalf of an issuer or in
of relation to an intended issuer unless, on or before the date of its publication, there
prospectus
has been delivered to the Commission a copy of the prospectus for registration,
signed by every person who is named in it as a director of the issuer, or by his
agent authorised in writing and having endorsed on it or attached to it —
(a) any consent to the issue of the prospectus required by section 105 of
this Act from any person as an expert;
(b) in the case of a prospectus issued generally, a copy of any contract
required by paragraph 11 of the Third Schedule to this Act to be stated in the
prospectus;
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 95
(c) in the case of a prospectus deemed by virtue of a certificate granted
under section 104 of this Act to comply with the requirements of the Third
Schedule, a contract or a copy of the contract or a memorandum of a contract
which was made available for inspection in connection with the application
made under that section to the securities exchange; and
(d) where the persons making any report required by Part II of the Third
Schedule to this Act have made in it or without giving the reasons have indicated
in it any such adjustments as are mentioned in paragraph 21 of the Third
Schedule, a written statement signed by those persons setting out the
adjustments and giving the reasons for them.
(2) The references in subsection (1)(b) and (c) to the copy of a contract
required to be endorsed on or attached to a prospectus shall in the case of a —
(a) contract wholly or partly in any language other than English, be taken
as references to a copy of a translation in English of the parts of the contract
that are in any other languages other than English from the original language
of the contract being a translation certified in any manner acceptable to the
Commission to be a correct translation; or
(b) copy of a contract or memorandum of a contract required to be made
available for inspection under subsection (1)(c), and which is wholly or partly
in any language other than English, include a reference to a copy of a translation
of the contract or memorandum or a copy embodying a translation of a part
of it and certified in a manner acceptable to the Commission.
(3) Every prospectus shall, on the face of it —
(a) state that a copy has been registered as required by this section; and
(b) specify or refer to statements included in the prospectus which specify
any document required by this section to be endorsed on or attached to the
copy so delivered.
(4) The Commission shall not register a prospectus unless it is satisfied
that —
(a) it is dated and signed as required by this section;
(b) it has endorsed on it or attached to it the documents, if any, specified; and
(c) the prospectus otherwise complies with the requirements of this Act.
(5) Where the Commission refuses to register a prospectus on the ground
that it fails to comply with the requirements of this Act, an aggrieved person
may appeal to the Tribunal established by this Act within 21 days after notification
of the refusal by the Commission.
(6) Where a prospectus is issued without a copy of it being registered by
the Commission or without the copy so registered having endorsed on it or
attached to it the documents required under this Act, the issuer and every person
who is a party to the issue of the prospectus, shall be jointly and severally liable
A 96 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
to a penalty of not less than N20,000,000 and a further sum of N50,000 for
every day the violation continues from the date of issue of the prospectus, or
such other sum as the Commission may deem necessary in the circumstance.
Contract in 109. An issuer shall not vary the terms of a contract referred to in the
prospectus prospectus or a statement in lieu of prospectus, except with the approval of the
not to be Commission and in the case of a company, the consent of shareholders in addition
varied
to the approval of the Commission.
without
leave
Document of 110.—(1) Where an issuer offers or agrees to offer securities with a view
offer of to offering those securities to the public, any document by which the offer is
securities to made shall be deemed to be a prospectus so issued, and shall have effect as if —
be deemed a
prospectus (a) the securities have been offered to the public for subscription; and
(b) persons accepting the offer are subscribers for those securities but
without prejudice to the liability, if any, of the persons by whom the offer is
made, in respect of misstatements contained in the document or otherwise.
(2) For the purposes of this Act, unless the contrary is proved, it shall be
deemed that an allotment of, or an agreement to allot securities was made with a
view to the securities being offered to the public if it is established that —
(a) an offer of all or any part of the securities is made, or
(b) at the date when the offer was made the whole consideration to be
received by the issuer in respect of the securities had been so received.
(3) Any prospectus issued under this section shall comply with a
prospectus issued under section 101 of this Act and provide the following
information; the —
(a) amount of the consideration received by the issuer in respect of the
securities to which the offer relates;
(b) place and time where the relevant offer documents may be inspected,
and
(c) identity of any person making the offer, who shall be deemed to be a
director or the equivalent of the issuer.
(4) Where a person makes an offer to which this section relates, it shall be
sufficient if the document is signed on behalf of the issuer by two directors or
the equivalent or by such other persons as may be authorised by the issuer.
Interpretation 111. For the purposes of the provisions of this Act, a statement —
as to
(a) included in a prospectus shall be deemed to be untrue if it is misleading
prospectus
in the form and context in which it is included; and
(b) shall be deemed to be included in a prospectus if it is contained in the
prospectus or in any report or memorandum appearing on the face of it or by
reference incorporated or issued with it.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 97
112. A statement in lieu of prospectus shall be in the form and contain the Form of
particulars set out in Part I of the Fourth Schedule to this Act and, in the cases statement in
mentioned in Part II of that Schedule, set out the reports specified in it, and lieu of
prospectus
Parts I and II shall have effect subject to the provisions contained in Part III of
that Schedule.
113.—(1) Where a prospectus invites persons to subscribe for securities, Civil
the persons referred to in subsection (2) shall be liable to pay compensation to liability for
all persons who subscribe for such securities relying on the prospectus for the misstatements
in
loss or damage they may have sustained by reason of any untrue statement or
prospectus
misstatement included in it.
(2) A person liable to pay compensation under subsection (1) includes —
(a) any director of the issuer or the equivalent at the time of the issue of
the prospectus;
(b) any person who consented to be named and is named in the prospectus
as a director of the issuer or the equivalent or as having agreed to become a
director or the equivalent either immediately or after an interval of time;
(c) any employee of the issuer who participated in or facilitated the
production of the prospectus;
(d) the issuing house and its principal officers;
(e) a person named in the prospectus as stockbroker, underwriter, auditor,
banker or solicitor of the issuer or other expert in relation to the offer;
(f ) promoter, for any loss or damage arising from the prospectus or any
relevant portion of the prospectus in respect of which he was a party to the
preparation; or
(g) a person named in the prospectus with his consent as having made a
statement that is included in the prospectus or on which a statement made in
the prospectus is based, for any loss or damage caused by the inclusion of
the statement in the prospectus.
(3) Where under section 105 of this Act the consent of a person is required
to the issue of a prospectus and he has given that consent, he shall not by reason
only of his having given the consent be liable under this section as a person who
has authorised the issue of prospectus except in respect of an untrue statement
or misstatement purported to be made by him as an expert.
(4) A person shall not be liable under subsection (1) if he proves that —
(a) having consented to become a director of the issuer or the equivalent,
he withdrew his consent in writing before the issue of the prospectus, and
that it was issued without his authority or consent;
(b) the prospectus was issued without his knowledge or consent, and that
on becoming aware, he immediately gave reasonable public notice that it was
issued without his knowledge or consent;
A 98 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(c) after the issue of the prospectus and before allotment, he, on becoming
aware of any untrue statement or misstatement, withdrew his consent in
writing and gave reasonable public notice of the withdrawal and of the reason
for his withdrawal; or
(d) as regards every untrue statement or misstatement —
(i) not purporting to be made on the authority of an expert, or of an
official public document or statement, he had reasonable ground to believe
and did up to the time of the allotment of the securities, as the case may be,
believe that the statement was true,
(ii) purporting to be a statement by an expert and he had reasonable
ground to believe that the person making the statement was competent to
make it and that person had given the consent required by section 105 of
this Act to the issue of the prospectus and had not withdrawn that consent
before delivery of a copy of the prospectus for registration, and
(iii) purporting to be a statement made by an official person or contained
in what purports to be a copy of or an extract from an official public
document, it was a correct and fair representation of the statement or
copy of or extract from the document.
(5) The provisions of subsection (4) shall not apply to a person who has
authorised the issue of a prospectus in respect of an untrue statement purporting
to be made by him as an expert in the case of a person liable by reason of his
having given a consent required of him by section 105 of this Act.
(6) A person who, apart from this subsection, would under subsection (1)
be liable, by reason of his having given a consent required of him by section 105
of this Act as a person who has authorised the issue of a prospectus in respect
of an untrue statement purporting to be made by him as an expert, shall not be so
liable if he proves that —
(a) having given his consent under section 105 of this Act to the issue of
the prospectus, he withdraws it in writing before registration of the prospectus;
(b) after registration of the prospectus and before allotment he, on becoming
aware of the untrue statement or misstatement, withdrew his consent in writing
and gave reasonable public notice of the withdrawal and of the reason for his
withdrawal; or
(c) he was competent to make the statement and that he had reasonable
ground to believe that the statement was true.
Criminal 114. Where a prospectus includes any untrue statement or misstatement,
liability for any director or the equivalent, or an officer who authorised the issue of the
misstatement prospectus or statement in lieu of a prospectus commits an offence and is liable
in
on conviction to a fine of not less than N1,000,000,000 or imprisonment for a
prospectus
term not less than three years or both.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 99
115.—(1) Where a public offer of securities is made, whether listed or Allotment of
not, the issuer and the issuing house shall be responsible for the allotment of securities
such securities, subject to the approval of the allotment by the Commission in
accordance with the rules and regulations made under this Act.
(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of subsection (1), the validity of an
allotment shall not be affected where it is undertaken under such exemptions
and conditions as may be specified by the Commission.
116. Allotment shall not be made of any securities offered to the public No allotment
for subscription unless the subscription level meets the minimum percentage below
prescribed by the Commission. minimum
subscription
117.—(1) Application money and other money paid prior to allotment of Application
securities by an applicant on account of securities shall, until the allotment of the money to be
securities, be held in a separate trust account by a custodian as nominee to the held in trust
until
issuing house on such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the
allotment
Commission.
(2) Any issuing house who contravenes or permits the contravention of
subsection (1) is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N5,000,000 or
imprisonment for a term of not less than one year or both.
(3) The Commission may, in lieu of prosecution under subsection (2),
impose a penalty of not less than N5,000,000 and a further sum of not less than
N50,000 for every day in which the violation continues.
(4) All application money paid by an issuing house or subscriber prior to
allotment into a separate account in a bank or other financial institution shall be
held in trust and upon the liquidation of such bank or financial institution shall
not be construed as part of the assets, deposit liabilities or other liabilities of that
entity in furtherance of the liquidation process.
(5) In the event of liquidation of a bank or financial institution in whose
custody application money is kept prior to allotment, the money held in the trust
account mentioned in subsection (4) shall be treated as priority to any other
claim and the liquidator shall transfer such money to the issuing house in respect
of the offer for which the money were deposited with the bank or financial
institution.
118. A shareholder may bring an action against an issuer which has allotted Action for
securities under a prospectus for the rescission of all allotments and the repayment rescission
to the holders of the securities of the whole or part of the issued price which has
been paid in respect of them if the prospectus —
(a) contained a material statement, which was false, deceptive or
misleading; or
(b) did not contain a statement, report or account required to be contained
in it by section 101 and the Third Schedule to this Act.
A 100 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Allotment of 119.—(1) Where a prospectus, whether issued generally or not, states that
securities application has been or will be made for permission for the securities offered by it
and dealing to be dealt with on any securities exchange, any allotment made on an application
on securities
under the prospectus shall, whenever made, be void if the permission has —
exchange
(a) not been applied for within three days after the issuance of the
prospectus; or
(b) been refused before the expiration of the offer period or such longer
period as may be notified to the applicant by the securities exchange.
(2) Where application or permission for a dealing referred to in subsection
(1) has not been made or applied for or if made or applied for has been refused,
the issuer or sponsor shall repay, with accrued interest, money received from
applicants under the prospectus, and if the money is not repaid within a period
stipulated by the Commission, the issuer or sponsor and its directors shall be
jointly and severally liable to repay the money with interest at the current interbank
rate per annum from the expiration of the period stipulated by the Commission.
(3) All money received by virtue of this section shall be kept in a separate
trust account on such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the
Commission, and the issuing house shall be liable to repay the money specified
under subsection (2).
(4) The issuing house and any of its officers, who violates the provisions
of subsection (2) shall be jointly and severally liable to a penalty of not less than
N5,000,000 and a further sum of not less than N50,000 for every day the violation
continues.
(5) Any condition requiring or binding any applicant for securities to waive
compliance with any requirement of this section is void.
(6) For the purposes of this section, permission shall not be deemed to be
refused if the applicant is notified that the application shall be given further
consideration by the Commission.
(7) This section shall have effect in relation to —
(a) any securities agreed to be taken by a person underwriting an offer by
a prospectus as if he had applied for them under the prospectus; and
(b) a prospectus offering securities for sale, with the following
modifications —
(i) references to sale shall be substituted for references to allotment,
(ii) the persons by whom the offer is made shall be liable under subsection
(2) to repay money received from applicants, and references to the issuer’s
liability under that subsection shall be construed accordingly, and
(iii) for the references in subsection (3) to the issuer and every officer
of the issuer who is in default there shall be substituted references to any
person by or through whom the offer is made and who authorises or
permits the default.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 101
120.—(1) The Commission shall have the power to prescribe the maximum Return of
period within which surplus money due to subscribers shall be returned. surplus
money to
(2) The Commission may, subject to subsection (3), prescribe the rate of
subscribers
interest payable to subscribers whose surplus money are held beyond the period
prescribed under subsection (1).
(3) The interest due and payable under subsection (2) shall not be less
than the Central Bank of Nigeria Monetary Policy Rate plus 5% and the Commission
may, in addition, require a company which fails to honour its obligation under
this subsection to pay a higher rate of interest on the surplus money.
(4) A person who fails to comply with the provisions of this section is
liable to a penalty of not less than N5,000,000 and a further sum of not less than
N50,000 for every day the violation continues.
PART X — CONDUCT OF SECURITIES BUSINESS
121. For the purpose of this Act, no cash transaction shall be carried out Prohibition
in the capital market. of cash
transactions
122. All securities to be transacted in the secondary market shall be in Prohibition
dematerialised form. of
transactions
in non-
dematerialised
securities
123.—(1) There shall be a legal entity identifier for any entity involved Legal entity
directly or indirectly in securities transactions to monitor and minimise systemic identifier
risks, arising from parties’ and counterparties’ activities.
(2) All participants in securities transactions shall obtain the legal entity
identifier from an authorised issuer.
(3) Every party in a financial transaction shall have a legal entity identifier
and disclose it in every securities transaction it is involved in for accuracy of
financial data and risk management.
124. A securities dealer shall, where applicable, within the prescribed time Securities
and in respect of every securities transaction either as a principal or agent, issue dealer to
a contract note or other form of transaction confirmation which complies with issue
contract note
this Part.
or
transaction
confirmation
125.—(1) A contract note or other form of transaction confirmation given Contents of
by a securities dealer under this Part shall include — contract note
or
transaction
confirmation
A 102 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(a) the name and style under which the securities dealer carries on his
business as a securities dealer and the address of the principal place at which
he so carries on his business;
(b) the name and address of the person in whose favour the securities
dealer issues the contract note or other form of transaction confirmation;
(c) the date on which the transaction took place;
(d) the number, amount and description of the securities which are the
subject of the contract or transaction;
(e) the price per unit of the securities;
(f ) the amount of the consideration;
(g) the rate and amount of commission, if any, charged;
(h) the amounts of all stamp duties or other duties and taxes payable in
connection with the contract or transaction; and
(i) if the settlement amount, and any other relevant information with or
without the benefit is to be added to or deducted from the settlement amount
in respect of the right to a benefit purchased or sold together with the securities,
the first-mentioned amount, and the nature of the benefit.
(2) A securities dealer who fails to issue a contract note or other form of
transaction confirmation in accordance with this Act is liable to a penalty of not
less than N200,000.
(3) Where a contract note or other form of transaction confirmation
containing false or misleading information is issued by any securities dealer, the
securities dealer and any of its principal officers who issued or authorised the
issuance commits an offence and is liable on conviction in the case of the —
(a) securities dealer, to a fine of not less than N10,000,000 or an amount
equivalent to four times the amount of profit derived by it or loss avoided in the
transaction, or to imprisonment for a term not less than three years or both, and
(b) principal officer to a fine of not less than N2,000,000 or an amount
equivalent to four times the amount of profit derived or loss avoided in the
transaction whichever is higher and or to imprisonment for a term of not less
than five years.
(4) Where an investor suffers a loss as a result of the contravention of
sections 124 and this section of this Act, the securities dealer shall refund to the
investor an amount equivalent to the loss, together with interest at a rate to be
prescribed by the Commission.
Disclosure 126.—(1) Where a securities dealer, fund manager, investment adviser,
of certain underwriter or a person associated with any of them, issues circulars or other
interests in
similar written communications with respect to securities or a class of securities
securities by
in which he has interest, he shall disclose in legible form, the nature of that
securities
interest.
dealers
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 103
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), interest shall include any financial
benefit or advantage which will, or is likely to, accrue directly or indirectly on or
arising out of dealings in the securities.
(3) Where a securities dealer, fund manager, investment adviser, underwriter
or an associated person of any of them —
(a) has purchased securities for the purpose of offering all or any of the
securities to the public; and
(b) offers to sell any of the securities to any person, he shall not make a
recommendation with respect to the securities offered for the purpose unless
he has informed each person to whom the recommendation is made that he
purchased the securities for that purpose.
(4) Where securities have been offered for subscription or purchase, and
a person has subscribed for or purchased or is or will or may be required to
subscribe for or purchase, any of those securities under an underwriting or sub-
underwriting agreement by reason that some or all of the securities have not
been subscribed for or purchased, he shall not, during the period of 90 days
after the close of the offer, make an offer to sell those securities, other than in
the ordinary course of trading on a securities exchange, or make a
recommendation with respect to those securities within a period to be prescribed
by the Commission, unless the offer or recommendation complies with the
provisions of subsection (5).
(5) An offer or recommendation shall not be made under subsection (4)
unless it contains or is accompanied by a statement to the effect that the offer or
recommendation relates to securities which he has acquired, or may be required
to acquire under an underwriting or sub-underwriting agreement by reason that
some or all of the securities have not been subscribed for or purchased.
(6) A securities dealer, fund manager, investment adviser, or any of their
representative shall not issue to any person any circular, other communication,
written offer or recommendation to which subsections (1), (3) or (4) apply
unless the circular or other communication or the written offer or recommendation
is signed by a director, executive officer or secretary in the case of a body
corporate, and that individual in the case of a natural person.
(7) Where a securities dealer, fund manager, investment adviser, or any of
their representative issues to any person a circular, other communication, written
offer or recommendation to which subsections (1), (3), (4) or (5) apply, the
first mentioned person shall preserve for a period of seven years a copy of the
circular or other communication or of the written offer or recommendation,
duly signed by any of the persons mentioned in subsection (6).
(8) Reference in this section to an offer of securities shall be construed to
include a reference to a statement that is not an offer but expressly or impliedly
invites a person to whom it is made, to offer or acquire securities.
A 104 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(9) A person who contravenes the provisions of this section commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than ¦ 5,000,000, or to
imprisonment for a term not more than three years or both.
Dealing as 127.—(1) A securities dealer shall not as a principal deal in any securities
principal with a person who is not a securities dealer except as permitted under
subsection (3).
(2) A reference in this section to a securities dealer dealing or entering into
a transaction as principal includes a reference to a person —
(a) dealing or entering into a transaction on behalf of a person associated
with him;
(b) dealing in securities on behalf of a body corporate in which he has a
controlling interest; or
(c) who carries on business as a dealer for a body corporate in which his
interest and the interests of his directors together constitute a controlling
interest.
(3) A securities dealer who, as a principal, enters into a transaction of sale
or purchase of securities with a person who is not a securities dealer shall state
in the contract note or transaction confirmation that he is acting in the transaction
as principal and not as agent.
(4) Where a securities dealer fails to comply with subsection (1) or (3) in
respect of a contract for sale of securities by him, the purchaser of the securities
may, if he has not disposed of them, rescind the contract by a notice of rescission
in writing given to the securities dealer not later than 30 days after the receipt of
the contract note.
(5) Where a dealer fails to comply with subsection (1) or (3) in respect of
a contract for the purchase of securities by him, the vendor of the securities
may, in like manner, rescind the contract.
(6) Nothing in subsections (4) and (5) shall affect any right which a
person has apart from the provisions of these subsections.
(7) A person who contravenes or fails to comply with any of the provisions
of this section, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not
less than N1,000,000, or an amount equivalent to four times the amount involved
in the transaction, whichever is higher or to imprisonment for a term not more
than six months or both.
(8) The Commission may, in lieu of prosecution under subsection (7),
impose a penalty of not less than N5,000,000 and a further sum of not less than
N10,000 for every day the violation continues.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 105
128.—(1) A securities dealer shall not give an unsecured credit to an Dealing by
associated person, an employee, or a person who is associated with the employee employees
of the securities dealer, if the — and
associated
(a) unsecured credit is advanced for the purpose of enabling the person to
persons of
purchase or subscribe for any securities; or securities
dealers
(b) person giving, authorising or approving the unsecured credit knows
or has reason to believe that the unsecured credit will be used for the purpose
of purchasing or subscribing for securities.
(2) A person who fails to comply with the provisions of subsection (1),
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N2,000,000
or imprisonment for a term not more than two years or both.
(3) The Commission may, in lieu of prosecution under subsection (2),
impose a penalty of not less than N5,000,000 and a further sum of not less than
N10,000 for every day the violation continues.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (2) and (3), a person
who contravenes the provisions of this section shall be liable to forfeit to the
Commission, the profit made or to be made from the contravention.
(5) An employee or any person to whom unsecured credit is advanced in
contravention of this section and any agent through which such unsecured credit
advancement is made shall be equally liable in the manner specified in subsections
(2), (3) and (4).
129.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), a securities dealer shall not whether Securities
acting as principal or on behalf of a person associated with him, enter into a dealers to
transaction of purchase or sale of securities for its own account, if a client of give priority
to client’s
the securities dealer who is not associated with the securities dealer has instructed
orders
the securities dealer to purchase or sell, respectively, securities of the same
class and the dealer has not complied with such instruction.
(2) A securities dealer who contravenes the provisions of this section shall
be liable to a penalty of not less than N500,000.
(3) A securities dealer shall, in addition to the penalty prescribed in subsection
(2), be liable to forfeit to its client, the securities acquired or proceeds of securities
sold, while the instruction of the client was pending, to the extent of the pending
instruction of such client.
(4) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply to a transaction entered
into by a securities dealer as principal or on behalf of a person associated with
him where the —
(a) instruction from the client of the securities dealer requires the purchase
or sale of securities on behalf of the client to be effected only on specified
conditions at which the securities were to be purchased or sold;
A 106 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(b) dealer has been unable to purchase or sell the securities by reasons of
those conditions; and
(c) transaction is entered into in prescribed circumstances.
Securities 130. The Commission may make regulations to —
lending and
(a) prevent the excessive use of credit in purchasing or transacting in
margin
requirements securities by dealers or member companies;
(b) provide for margin requirements, for the amount of credit which may
be extended and maintained by securities dealers; and
(c) provide for securities lending transactions by securities dealers and for
matters connected with it.
Unauthorised 131.—(1) A regulated entity shall not —
sale or
transfer of (a) sell, transfer, or otherwise dispose of the securities of a client without
securities an express mandate or authorisation from the client; or
(b) withhold, refuse, neglect or otherwise fail to remit proceeds of the
sale of the client’s securities.
(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1), commits
an offence and is liable on conviction, to a fine of not less than N50,000,000 or
an amount equivalent to four times the amount of profit derived by it in the
transaction, whichever is higher, and a further sum of ¦ 50,000 for every day the
violation continues.
(3) In addition to the penalty prescribed under subsection (2) the —
(a) person shall be liable to restitute to the client the loss suffered with
interest at the prevailing commercial bank rate; and
(b) Commission may suspend or revoke the registration of the regulated
entity, or take any other action as it may deem fit.
PART XI — TRADING IN SECURITIES
False trading 132.—(1) A person shall not create, or cause to be created, or do anything
and market which may create a false or misleading appearance of active trading in any
rigging securities on a securities exchange or in relation to the market for the price of
transactions
any such securities.
(2) A person shall not —
(a) by means of purchase or sale of any securities not involving a change
in the beneficial ownership of those securities; or
(b) by any fictitious transactions or devices,
maintain, inflate, depress, or cause fluctuations in the market price of any
securities.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 107
(3) Without prejudice to subsection (1), a person shall be deemed to have
created a false or misleading appearance of active trading in securities on a
securities exchange or financial market infrastructure where such person —
(a) approves, participates in, is concerned with or carries out, either
directly or indirectly, any transaction on securities which does not involve
any change in the beneficial ownership of the securities;
(b) makes or causes to be made an offer to sell securities at a specified
price where he knows that a person associated with him has made or caused
to be made, an offer to purchase the same or substantially the same number
of securities at a price which is substantially the same as the first mentioned
price; or
(c) makes or causes to be made an offer to purchase any securities at a
specified price where he knows that a person associated with him has made
or caused to be made, an offer to sell the same number of securities at a price
which is substantially the same as the first mentioned price.
(4) A person shall not be deemed to have violated the provisions of this
section if it is established that the purpose or purposes for which he did the act
was not, or did not include, the purpose of creating a false or misleading appearance
of active trading in securities on a securities exchange or financial market
infrastructure.
133. A person shall not make a statement, or disseminate information, False or
which is false or misleading and likely to induce the sale or purchase of securities misleading
by other persons or likely to have the effect of raising, lowering, maintaining or statements
establishing the market price of securities.
134.—(1) A person shall not — Fraudulently
inducing
(a) make or publish any statement, promise or forecast which is misleading,
persons to
false or deceptive;
deal in
(b) dishonestly conceals material facts with the intent to induce another securities
person to deal in securities;
(c) record, create or store in any way, information which is false or
misleading with the intent to induce another person to deal in securities; or
(d) make any untrue statement or omit to state a material fact with the
intent to conceal a misleading statement.
(2) It is a defense to any liability under section 133 and subsection (1) if it
is established that, at the time when the person made, published, recorded or
stored the information or material facts, he had no reasonable grounds to believe
that the information was false, misleading or may be available to any other person.
A 108 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Dissemination 135. A person shall not disseminate, or authorise or participate in the
of illegal dissemination of any statement or illegal information which is likely to increase,
information
reduce or maintain the price of any securities by reason of any transaction
entered into or things done in relation to the securities if the person or a person
associated with that person has —
(a) entered into any such transaction or done any such act or thing; or
(b) received or expects to receive directly or indirectly any consideration
or benefit for disseminating, authorising or being concerned in the circulation or
dissemination of the statement or information.
Prohibition 136. A person shall not directly or indirectly in connection with the purchase
of fraudulent or sale of securities employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud, or engage
means in any act, practice or course of business which operates as a fraud or deceit
upon any person.
Prohibition 137.—(1) A person who is an insider shall not buy or sell, or otherwise
of dealing in deal, directly or indirectly in any securities if he has material non-public information
securities by
in relation to those securities.
insiders
(2) A person in a relationship with an issuer shall not with the knowledge of
a material fact of the issuer that has not been publicly disclosed, inform, recommend
or encourage another person to purchase or sell securities of the issuer.
(3) A person who becomes an insider in a public company or any other
issuer, other than a collective investment scheme, shall within 14 days of becoming
an insider or of carrying out an insider transaction or within such other period as
may be prescribed by regulation, file a report disclosing, in the prescribed manner
and form, any direct or indirect beneficial ownership of or control or direction
over securities of the public company or other issuer and any interest in, or right
or obligation associated with, a related financial instrument and the insider shall
make such other disclosure as may be required by the regulations under this Act.
138. A person shall not be guilty of insider dealing by virtue of —
Actions not
(a) doing any particular thing other than with a view to make a profit or
prohibited
avoid a loss, whether for himself or another person, by the use of that
under
information; or
section 137
(b) entering into a transaction in the course of the performance in good
faith of his functions as a liquidator, receiver or trustee in bankruptcy.
Civil and 139.—(1) The Commission may proceed against a person who contravenes
criminal any provision of this Part by failing, omitting or refusing to file an insider report,
liability
fraudulently inducing, rigging, issuing misleading information, or manipulating
under this
the market or by buying, selling, or otherwise dealing, directly or indirectly in
Part and
the securities of a body corporate while in possession of material, non-public
authority to
award information or communicating such information in connection with a transaction
bounty to on or through the facilities of a securities exchange or financial market
informant
infrastructure or from, or through a broker or dealer.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 109
(2) A person who —
(a) contravenes subsection (1),
(b) had knowledge of the contravention and benefitted from it or failed to
report such contravention,
(g) directly or indirectly influenced the person who committed such
contravention, or
(d) facilitated any part of the activity which led to the contravention,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction, in the case of —
(i) an individual, to a fine of not less than N10,000,000 or an amount
equivalent to four times the amount of profit derived or loss avoided in the
transaction whichever is higher; and to imprisonment for a term of not
less than five years, or
(ii) a body corporate, to a fine of not less than N50,000,000 or an
amount equivalent to four times the amount of profit derived by it or loss
avoided in the transaction as a result of such unlawful manipulation,
purchase, sale, or communication.
(3) The Commission may in lieu of criminal prosecution of a person who
violates any Part of this Act impose a penalty of not less than N20,000,000, or
four times the profit gained or loss avoided in the transaction whichever is
higher.
(4) In addition to subsection (3), the Commission may suspend or withdraw
the registration of such person if the person is a capital market operator, or
member of a securities exchange or financial market infrastructure.
(5) There shall be paid from amounts imposed as a penalty under this
section and recovered by the Commission, such sums, not more than 10% of
such amount as the Commission deems appropriate, to a person who provides
information leading to the successful prosecution of the matter or imposition of
such penalty.
(6) A person shall not directly or indirectly take reprisal or subject an
employee to detriment where the employee has —
(a) sought advice about providing information, expressed an intention to
provide information, or provided information to the Commission, a self-
regulatory organisation or a law enforcement agency about an act of the
person that has occurred, is ongoing or is about to occur, and that the employee
reasonably believes is contrary to this Act or the rules and regulations made
under it or other regulatory instrument of a financial market infrastructure or
self-regulatory organisation; or
(b) in relation to information provided under paragraph (a), cooperated,
testified or otherwise assisted in —
A 110 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(i) an investigation by the Commission, a financial market infrastructure,
self- regulatory organisation or a law enforcement agency, or
(ii) a proceeding of the Commission, financial market infrastructure, a
self- regulatory organisation, or a judicial proceeding.
(7) For the purposes of subsection (6), a reprisal is any measure taken
against an employee that adversely affects his employment and includes —
(a) ending or threatening to end the employee’s employment;
(b) demoting, disciplining, suspending, or threatening to demote, discipline
or suspend an employee;
(c) imposing or threatening to impose a penalty related to the employment
of the employee,
(d) intimidating or coercing an employee in relation to his employment; or
(e) any other measure detrimental to the employee’s employment.
(8) A provision in an agreement, including a confidentiality agreement,
between a person or company and an employee of the person or company is
void to the extent that it precludes or purports to preclude the employee from —
(a) providing information prescribed in subsection (6) (a) to the
Commission, a self-regulatory organisation or a law enforcement agency; or
(b) in relation to information provided under subsection (6) (a), cooperating,
testifying or otherwise assisting, or expressing an intention to cooperate,
testify or otherwise assist in —
(i) an investigation by the Commission, a self-regulatory organisation
or a law enforcement agency, or
(ii) a proceeding of the Commission or a self-regulatory organisation,
or a judicial proceeding.
(9) Where a person has directly or indirectly taken a reprisal against an
employee or subjected an employee to any detriment in contravention of
subsection (6), without limiting the actions the employee may otherwise
take, the employee may —
(a) make a complaint to be dealt with by final and binding settlement by
arbitration under a collective agreement;
(b) where final and binding settlement by arbitration under a collective
agreement is not available, make a complaint to the Commission; or
(c) bring an action before a court of competent jurisdiction.
(10) The Commission, the Tribunal, an arbitrator or the court hearing a
complaint or action under subsection (9) may order one or more of the following
remedies —
(a) the employee’s reinstatement, with the same seniority status that the
employee would have had if the contravention had not occurred; or
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 111
(b) payment to the employee of two times the amount of remuneration the
employee would have been paid by the employer if the contravention had not
taken place between the date of the contravention and the date of the order,
and in this subsection, “remuneration” includes all payments, benefits, bonuses,
entitlements and allowances.
(11) The Commission may in addition to any other penalty imposed under
this Part direct a person who is liable under this Part to pay compensation to any
aggrieved person who suffered a loss by reason of the difference between the
price at which the securities would have been dealt with had the contravention
not occurred.
PART XII — MERGERS, TAKE-OVERS AND CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING
140.—(1) Without prejudice to the powers of other financial market Control of
regulators, a public company shall not, without the prior approval of the restructuring
Commission, undertake a proposal, scheme, transaction, arrangement, or of public
companies
activity or issue securities or offer for subscription or purchase of securities
in relation to —
(a) the conversion of a public company or the reconstruction of its shares;
(b) a carve-out, spin-off, split-off or other form of restructuring of its
operations; or
(c) the acquisition or disposal of asset which results in a significant change
in the business direction or policy of a public company or any other listed
entity whether or not in relation to any proposal, scheme, transaction,
arrangement or activity.
(2) A person who proposes to effect a compromise, arrangement or scheme
by way of issue of securities for the amalgamation of two or more listed
companies, shall seek the approval of the Commission.
(3) In granting approval under this section, the Commission shall consider
whether all shareholders are fairly, equitably and similarly treated and given
sufficient information regarding the transaction.
141.—(1) Where a merger involving a public company is achieved or to Merger by
be achieved by amalgamation or other combination with the other undertaking in amalgamation
question — and other
combination
(a) the Commission may grant an approval in principle to the company
involved to make an application to the court to order separate meetings of
shareholders of the merging companies in order to get their concurrence to
the proposed merger; and
(b) if a majority representing not less than three quarters in value of the
shares of members being present and voting either in person or by proxy at
each of the separate meetings agree to the scheme, the scheme shall be referred
to the Commission for approval.
A 112 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(2) Where the merger is approved by the Commission, the parties shall
apply to the court for the merger to be sanctioned and when so sanctioned, it
shall become binding on the companies and the court may by the order sanctioning
the merger or by a subsequent order make provision for any or all of the following
matters —
(a) the transfer to the transferee company of the whole or any part of the
undertaking and of the property or liabilities of any transferor company;
(b) the allotment or appropriation by the transferee company of any shares,
debentures, policies or other like interests in that company which under the
scheme are to be allotted or appropriated by that company to or for any
person;
(c) the continuation by or against the transferee company of any legal
proceedings pending by or against any transferor company;
(d) the dissolution, without winding up, of any transferor company;
(e) the provision to be made for any person who in such manner as the
court may direct, dissents to the scheme; and
(f ) such incidental, consequential and supplemental matters as are
necessary to ensure that the reconstruction or merger shall be fully and
effectively carried out.
(3) An order under subsection (2)(d) shall not be made unless the —
(a) whole of the undertaking and the property, assets and liabilities of the
transferor company are being transferred into the transferee company; and
(b) court is satisfied that adequate provision by way of compensation or
otherwise have been made with respect to the employees of the company to
be dissolved.
(4) Where an order under this section provides for the transfer of property
or liabilities, that property or liabilities shall by virtue of the order, be transferred
to and become the property or liabilities of the transferee company, and in the
case of any property, if the order so directs, be freed from any charge which by
virtue of the merger ceases to have effect.
(5) Where an order is made under this section, every company in relation
to which the order is made shall cause an office copy to be delivered to the
Commission for registration within seven days after the making of the order and
a notice of the order shall be published in at least one national newspaper.
(6) Any person that contravenes subsection (5), is liable to a fine of not
less than N250,000 and N1,000 for every day the violation continues.
(7) In this section —
(a) “property “ includes property rights and powers of every description;
and
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 113
(b) “liabilities” includes rights, powers and duties of every description
notwithstanding that such rights, powers and duties are of a personal character
not generally assigned or performed vicariously.
142.—(1) The Commission shall regulate and govern the conduct of persons Takeover
involved in take-overs, mergers or compulsory acquisition, including an acquirer, rules and
target company, offeror, offeree and their officers and associates. regulations
(2) A person shall not acquire shares, whether by a series of transactions
or not, which carry 30% or more of the voting rights of a company.
(3) A person, whether by a series of transactions or not, acting in concert
with another, shall not acquire shares which taken together with the shares held
or acquired by them, carry 30% or more of the voting rights of a company.
(4) A person intending to acquire 30% or more of the shares specified in
subsections (2) and (3) shall make a take-over bid to other shareholders.
(5) The Commission shall ensure that the acquisition of voting shares or
control of companies is conducted in an efficient, competitive and transparent
manner.
(6) The Commission shall ensure that shareholders and directors of an
offeree and the market for the shares that are the subject of the take-over —
(a) are aware of the identity of the acquirer and offeror;
(b) have reasonable time in which to consider a take-over; and
(c) are supplied with sufficient information necessary to enable them
assess the merits or otherwise of any take-over.
(7) Shareholders of an offeree shall have equal opportunities to participate
in the benefits accruing from the take-over, including in the premium payable for
control.
(8) The acquirer and the target company shall ensure that there is fair and
equal treatment of shareholders, in particular, minority shareholders, in relation
to the take-over, or compulsory acquisition.
(9) The directors of the acquirer and the target company shall, with respect
to a take-over, merger and compulsory acquisition act in good faith and ensure
that shareholders are not subject to oppression or disadvantaged by the treatment
and conduct of the directors of the acquirer or the target company.
143.—(1) Save as otherwise provided in this Part, any person who makes Compliance
a take-over bid shall do so in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the with code
rules and regulations made under this Act. and rules
(2) Subject to exemptions, an acquirer who has obtained control in a
public company or seeks to obtain control in a public company shall make a
take-over bid, in accordance with the provisions of the rules and regulations
made under this Act.
A 114 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(3) Subject to any exemption, an acquirer who has obtained control shall
not acquire any additional voting rights or voting shares in that company or
voting rights, as the case may be, except in accordance with the provisions of
the rules and regulations made under this Act.
(4) Where an acquirer fails to comply with the provisions of subsection
(2) or with the directives of the Commission, the acquirer shall be liable to a
penalty of not less than N10,000,000 and N25,000 for every day the violation
continues, and shall in addition sell down his holdings in the target company
under a supervised process and relinquish control, arising from such holdings.
(5) Any other person who contravenes the provisions of this section shall
be liable to a penalty of not less than N10,000,000 and a further sum of N25,000
for every day which the violation continues and such other sanction as may be
deemed appropriate.
(6) A person who asserts that it qualifies for any exemption shall, within
30 days following the acquisition of shares which would otherwise require it to
make a mandatory take-over bid, give notice of such acquisition to the Commission
and seek exemption from making the mandatory take-over bid.
Authority 144.—(1) Except as may be specified in the rules and regulations, no
to proceed person or two or more persons jointly or in concert, shall make a takeover bid
with unless an authority to proceed with the takeover bid has been granted by the
takeover
Commission under this section and is in effect at the date of the takeover bid.
(2) An application for an authority to proceed with a takeover bid shall —
(a) be made to the Commission by or on behalf of the person proposing to
make the bid;
(b) give the name and other particulars of that person; and
(c) give particulars of the proposed bid and contain such information and
be accompanied by such documents or reports, as may be prescribed by
regulations made under this Act.
(3) The Commission may require the person making an application to
furnish it with such further information as it reasonably considers necessary to
enable it make a decision on the application and that person shall, give the
information to the Commission.
(4) The Commission may consult with persons as it deems necessary in
order to make a decision on an application.
(5) Except as may be necessary for the purpose of any consultation under
subsection (4), the Commission shall keep confidential the contents of an
application, any document or report accompanying an application and any
information given under subsection (3).
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 115
(6) For the purpose of deciding whether or not to grant an authority to
proceed with a take-over bid, the Commission shall —
(a) have regard to the likely effect of the take-over bid if successfully
made —
(i) on the economy of Nigeria, and
(ii) on any policy of the Federal Government with respect to manpower
and development; and
(b) determine whether all shareholders are fairly, equitably and similarly
treated and given sufficient information regarding the take-over.
(7) Where the Commission is satisfied that none of the matters referred to
in subsection (6) would be adversely affected, it shall grant an authority to
proceed with the proposed take-over bid.
(8) An authority to proceed with a proposed take-over bid shall be —
(a) in writing signed by or on behalf of the Commission; and
(b) dated and give sufficient particulars of the proposed take-over bid to
enable it to be identified.
(9) An authority to proceed with a take-over bid shall remain in effect for —
(a) the period of three months following the date of authority; or
(b) such longer period as the Commission may, on application made to it
before the expiration of the period referred to in paragraph (a) allow.
145. Where the consideration for the shares deposited under a take-over Arrangement
bid, merger or other arrangements is to be paid — for funds
(a) in cash or partly in cash, the offeror shall ensure that funds are available
to make the required monetary payment for those shares; or
(b) by the securities of a public company, the provisions of this Act on
registration of securities and invitations to the public shall apply.
146.—(1) A payment for loss of office may not be made by any person to No payment
a director of a company in connection with a transfer of shares in the company, for loss of
or in a subsidiary of the company, resulting from a merger, take-over, or other office
form of corporate restructuring unless the payment has been approved by a
resolution of the relevant shareholders.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the relevant shareholders are the
holders of the shares to which the bid relates and any holder of shares of the
same class as any of those shares.
(3) A resolution approving a payment to which this section applies shall
not be passed unless a memorandum setting out particulars of the proposed
payment, including its amount, is made available for inspection by the members
of the company whose approval is sought at the —
A 116 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(a) company’s registered office for at least 15 days ending with the date
of the meeting; and
(b) meeting itself.
(4) A person making the offer or any related party of such person shall not
be entitled to vote on the resolution:
Provided that at any meeting to consider the resolution, such persons shall be
entitled to be given notice of the meeting, to attend and speak and if present, in
person or by proxy, count towards the quorum.
(5) A payment made under an arrangement —
(a) entered into as part of the agreement for the transfer in question, or
within one year before or two years after that agreement, and
(b) to which the company whose shares are the subject of the offer, or
any person to whom the transfer is made, is privy,
is presumed, except in so far as the contrary is shown, to be a payment to which
this section applies.
Liability for 147.—(1) Where any document or information is required to be submitted
false or to the Commission under this Part or the rules and regulations in relation to a
misleading
take-over, merger or restructuring —
statement
(a) an acquirer, an offeror or a person making a compulsory acquisition
or effecting a merger or restructuring, its officers or associates;
(b) an offeree, its officers or associates;
(c) a financial adviser or an expert; or
(d) such other person as the Commission may determine;
shall not —
(i) submit or cause to be submitted any document or information that is
false or misleading,
(ii) provide or cause to be provided any document or information from
which there is a material omission, or
(iii) engage in conduct that he knows to be misleading or deceptive or
is likely to mislead or deceive.
(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1), commits an offence and is
liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N5,000,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not more than five years or both.
(3) The Commission may, in lieu of prosecution, impose a penalty of not
less than N10,000,000 in addition to any of the actions specified in section 148.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 117
148.—(1) Where any person who is under an obligation to comply with Action by
the provisions of this Part, or the rules and regulations made under this Act, Commission
contravenes or fails to comply with any such provision or rule, the Commission in cases of
non-
may in addition to the penalties specified in this Part, take one or more of the
compliance
following actions —
(a) direct the person in breach to comply with any such provision of this
Part, or rules and regulations made under Act;
(b) direct a securities exchange to deprive the person in breach access to
the facilities of the securities exchange;
(c) where the person in breach is a listed company, direct the securities
exchange to —
(i) suspend trading in the securities of the company,
(ii) suspend the listing of the company, or
(iii) remove from the official list, the company or the class of securities
of the company;
(d) where the entity in breach is a company that is not listed, direct any
securities exchange to prohibit the listing of any of its securities;
(e) direct a securities exchange to prohibit the person in breach from
engaging in transactions to be executed through the use of the facilities of the
securities exchange; or
(f ) require the person in breach to take such steps as the Commission
may direct to remedy the breach or mitigate the effect of such breach, including
making restitution to any other person aggrieved by such breach.
(2) Prior to taking any action under subsection (1), the Commission shall —
(a) notify the person in breach of its intention to take action; and
(b) call on the person to show cause within a specified period why action
should not be taken by the Commission.
(3) In determining whether or not restitution is to be made by a person in
breach under subsection (1)(f), the Commission shall have regard to —
(a) the profits that have accrued to such person in breach; or
(b) whether one or more persons have suffered loss or been otherwise
adversely affected as a result of the breach.
(4) Where a person has failed to comply with a penalty imposed by the
Commission under subsection (1)(b), the Commission may sue and recover the
penalty as a civil debt.
(5) Without prejudice to any other remedy, where the Commission has
directed a person in breach to make restitution in the form of monetary payment,
and the person in breach fails to pay the restitution, the Commission may sue
and recover the restitution as a civil debt due to the persons aggrieved by the
breach.
A 118 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(6) Nothing in this section shall preclude the Commission from taking any
of the actions that it is empowered to take under this Act or other applicable
securities laws against the person in breach.
Terms used 149. Terms used in this Part shall be construed as defined in section 357
in this Part of this Act.
PART XIII — COLLECTIVE INVESTMENTS SCHEMES
Meaning of 150. Collective investment scheme means a scheme or arrangement in
collective whatever form, including an open-ended and close-ended investment scheme,
investment under which members of the public or qualified investors are invited or permitted
scheme
to invest money or other assets in a portfolio, and in terms of which —
(a) two or more investors contribute money or other assets to and hold a
participatory interest in a portfolio of the scheme through shares, units or any
other form of participatory interest;
(b) such contributions are pooled and the portfolio of the scheme is
managed as a whole;
(c) such contributions entitle such investors to hold a participatory interest
in the portfolio of the scheme through shares, units or any other form of
participatory interest; or
(d) such investors share the risk and the benefit of investment in proportion
to their participatory interest in a portfolio of a scheme or on any other basis
determined in the deed.
Types of 151.—(1) The Commission may approve a collective investment scheme
collective which is administered as —
investment
(a) unit trust scheme;
scheme
(b) open-ended or close-ended investment company;
(c) real estate investment company or trust;
(d) specialised or alternative investment scheme; or
(e) such other schemes as may be approved by the Commission.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the Commission
may by notice, designate a scheme as constituting a collective investment scheme.
(3) For the purpose of this Part, sections 184, 185 and 187 of the Companies
and Allied Matters Act, shall not apply to a scheme constituted as an open-ended
investment company or real estate investment company.
Principles 152.—(1) A manager shall administer a collective investment scheme
for the honestly and fairly —
administration
(a) with skill, care and diligence;
of the
scheme (b) in the interest of investors and the securities industry; and
(c) ensuring that the assets of the collective investment scheme are
adequately protected and segregated.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 119
(2) Every authorised scheme shall adhere to the principle of segregation
and identification, as may be prescribed by the Commission.
153. Before the manager of a scheme enters into a transaction with an Disclosure
investor — of
information
(a) information about the investment objectives of the scheme, the types
of securities the scheme invests in, the calculation of the net asset value and
dealing prices, charges, risk factors and distribution of income accruals shall
be disclosed to the investor; and
(b) information that is necessary to enable the investor to make an informed
decision shall be given to the investor timeously and in a comprehensible
manner.
154. The manager of a scheme shall — Duties of
managers of
(a) avoid conflict between the interests of the promoter or manager and
a scheme
the interests of an investor;
(b) disclose the interests of its directors, owners or management to the
investor;
(c) maintain adequate financial resources to meet its commitments and to
manage the risks to which schemes under its management are exposed;
(d) organise and control the scheme in a responsible manner;
(e) keep proper records;
(f ) employ adequately trained staff and ensure that they are properly
supervised;
(g) have well-defined compliance procedures; and
(h) promote investor education.
155.—(1) A person shall not perform any act or enter into any agreement or Requirements
transaction for the purpose of administering a scheme, unless such person is — for
administration
(a) incorporated under the Companies and Allied Matters Act; and
of a
(b) registered as a fund or portfolio manager by the Commission. collective
investment
(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of this section is liable to a
scheme
penalty of not less than N10,000,000 and a further sum of N100,000 for every
day the violation continues.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2), any person in breach
shall restitute to the investors any loss suffered, with interest at the prevailing
prime lending rate of the bankers to the person in breach.
156.—(1) A person may not, unless registered as a manager under this Prohibition
Act, include in or have as part of the name of its business or in any description of
of his business any reference to a collective investment scheme, open-ended misleading
names and
investment company, unit trust or real estate investment scheme and no person
actions
A 120 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
who is not registered as a manager or trustee or custodian under this Act may
perform any act calculated to lead the public to believe that any business carried
on by such person consists of or is connected with the administration of a
collective investment scheme.
(2) Any person who contravenes the provision of this section is liable to a
penalty of not less than N5,000,000 and a further sum of N100,000 for every
day that the violation continues.
Authorisation 157.—(1) A person shall not establish or operate a collective investment
of collective scheme, carry on or purport to carry on the business of a collective investment
investment
scheme without the prior review and approval of the Commission.
schemes
(2) An application for authorisation under this section shall be in the form
prescribed by the Commission and shall be accompanied by such documents as
may be prescribed by the Commission.
(3) Upon application to the Commission in accordance with this Act by the
manager of a scheme, the Commission may authorise the scheme where the —
(a) Commission is satisfied that the competence in respect of matters of
the kind with which they would be concerned in relation to a scheme and probity
of the manager and its directors and management as well as external auditors,
trustee or custodian, as the case may be, are such as to render them suitable to
act as manager, trustee or custodian in respect of the scheme;
(b) manager, trustee or custodian, of the scheme is —
(i) a body corporate which is incorporated under the Companies and
Allied Matters Act,
(ii) having funds, capital and reserve as may be prescribed by the
Commission, and
(iii) registered by the Commission;
(c) Commission is satisfied that the scheme is such that proprietary interest
in the scheme assets is vested in the trustee and the scheme is managed by
the manager for the benefit of the unitholders of the scheme;
(d) Commission is satisfied that the trust deed or custodial agreement is in
compliance with the provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations of the
Commission for the time being in effect; and
(e) name of the scheme is not, in the opinion of the Commission,
undesirable.
(4) The Commission may refuse to authorise a scheme if it fails to comply
with the provisions of this Part and shall so notify the manager, trustee or
custodian under the scheme stating its reasons for refusal within 60 days of
filing the application.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 121
158.—(1) A person shall not, directly or indirectly, deal in units or Registration
participatory interest of a scheme unless such units or participatory interest of units or
have been duly registered with the Commission. securities of
a scheme
(2) A scheme or any other arrangement may be registered under this Act
by the issuer filing an application with the Commission in accordance with the
provisions of this Part and the rules and regulations made under Act.
(3) The Commission shall establish and maintain a register of units or
securities and collective investments schemes (in this Part referred to as “the
register”).
(4) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this section is liable to
a penalty of not less than N5,000,000 and a further sum of N100,000 for every
day the contravention continues.
159.—(1) A manager, trustee or custodian of a scheme shall not make any Alteration of
alteration in the trust deed or custodial agreement in which are expressed the trust deed,
trusts of an authorised scheme or make any change in the name of an authorised custodial
agreement,
scheme without the prior approval of the Commission.
or change of
(2) A manager or trustee of a scheme who contravenes the provision of name of
subsection (1), is liable to a penalty of N5,000,000 and a further sum of N100,000 scheme
for every day the violation continues.
160.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, the Commission may Revocation
revoke the authorisation of a scheme where — of
authorisation
(a) there is a contravention of any provision of this Part or of any rule or
of a scheme
regulation made under this Act;
(b) the Commission is no longer satisfied in respect of the matter specified
in section 157(3)(a), (c) and (d) of this Act; or
(c) the interest of the holders of units or participatory interest created
under the scheme so requires.
(2) The Commission shall before the revocation —
(a) notify the manager and the trustee or custodian under the scheme,
who may within 21 days from the date of the notification make representations
in writing to the Commission in respect of the proposed revocation; and
(b) consider any representation duly made by the manager and trustee
under the scheme.
(3) The Commission shall communicate its decision to revoke its
authorisation of the scheme within 30 days after the making of the representations
or if none are made within 30 days after the last day for making of the
representation under this section.
(4) Whenever the authorisation of a scheme under this Act is revoked, the
Commission shall appoint a trustee or an independent administrator as it deems
A 122 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
fit, who shall be an agent of the unit holders and observe utmost good faith in
the discharge of its responsibilities.
(5) Whenever the trustee or an administrator is so appointed, notice shall
be given to the unit holders by publication of the revocation of the scheme and
the appointment of the trustee or administrator in three national daily newspapers.
(6) The manager shall within 14 days after the revocation, file with the
Commission, a statement of the affairs of the scheme including names, addresses
of all creditors, unit holders, the securities held and such other information as
may be prescribed by the Commission.
(7) The manager shall submit a copy of the statement of affairs filed with
the Commission under subsection (6) to the trustee or administrator as the case
may be.
(8) A manager who defaults in complying with the requirements of
subsection (6), commits an offence and is liable to a penalty of not less than
N1,000,000 and not less than N50,000 for every day the violation continues.
(9) The trustee or administrator shall realise all the property or undertaking
and buy all the units of the scheme at the prevailing price subject to deduction of
costs of realisation as well as the remuneration for the appointment and other
costs as shall be approved by the Commission.
(10) The trustee or administrator so appointed shall within one month
after ceasing to act as the administrator or trustee, deliver to the Commission a
statement of receipts and payments during the period.
(11) Any trustee or administrator who fails to comply with the provisions
of subsection (10) is liable to a fine of N50,000 for every day the violation
continues.
Approval of 161.—(1) Any letter, notice, circular or document prepared by the manager
prospectus for the purpose of offering units or securities of a scheme to the public, shall be
and other
approved by the trustee or custodian as the case may be and submitted to the
offer
Commission for approval before such letter, notice, circular or document is published.
documents
(2) There shall be included in the document referred to in subsection (1),
information in relation to such matters, if any, as may be prescribed by the
Commission.
Liability for 162. A manager of a scheme who offers or sells by means of a letter,
material notice, circular, document or oral communication which —
misstatement
(a) includes an untrue statement of a material fact, or
(b) omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statement,
in the light of the circumstances under which it was made, not misleading,
is liable to refund to the purchaser the consideration paid for such units or
participatory interest with interest at the prevailing prime lending rate of the
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 123
banker to the person in breach, and in addition, the manager shall be liable to a
penalty of not less than N50,000,000 in the first instance and N50,000 for every
day the violation continues.
163.—(1) Whenever the holder of units or participatory interest of an Redemption
authorised open-ended scheme so requests, the manager under the scheme, of units or
shall, within the time prescribed by the Commission, buy from the holder such securities
number of those units or participatory interest as the holder may specify at the
price for the time being at which the manager buys units or participatory interest
of the scheme.
(2) A manager of a scheme shall not suspend the right or postpone the
date of redemption of units or participatory interest by a holder provided that
such suspension or postponement may be done during public holidays or
emergencies or when the securities exchange is closed or whenever the
Commission permits it.
(3) A manager of a scheme who contravenes the provisions of this section
is liable to a penalty of not less than N1,000,000 and N50,000 for every day the
violation continues.
164.—(1) A company that is a manager under a scheme or is a subsidiary Prohibition
or holding company of the manager or a director or a person engaged in the of certain
management of such a company shall not carry out transactions for itself or transactions
and profits
himself, or make a profit for itself or himself from a transaction in any assets
held under the scheme.
(2) A company that is a manager of a scheme constituted under a trust or
is a subsidiary or holding company of the manager shall not —
(a) borrow money on behalf of the scheme for the purpose of acquiring
securities or other property for the scheme save as provided for by the trust
deed, articles of the company or partnership deed as is relevant for the
investment activities of the scheme with consent of the trustees and approval
of the Commission;
(b) lend money that is subject to the trusts of the scheme to a person to
enable him to purchase units or participatory interest of the scheme;
(c) mortgage, charge or impose any other encumbrance on any securities
or other property subject to the trust of the scheme save for securities lending
and borrowing; or
(d) engage in any transaction that is not in the interest of unit or participatory
interest holders and of the scheme.
(3) A person who contravenes the provisions of this section, commits an
offence and is liable upon conviction to a fine of not less than N5,000,000 or to
imprisonment for a term of not less than three years or both.
A 124 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(4) The Commission may, in lieu of prosecution under subsection (3),
sanction a person who contravenes the provisions of this section by imposing a
penalty of an amount that is equal to the profits made from any such transaction
or an amount not less than N5,000,000 whichever is higher.
Liabilities of 165. Any provision in the trust deed or custodial agreement in which are
trustees and expressed the trusts or agreement created under an authorised scheme shall be
custodians
void if it would have the effect of exempting the trustee or custodian under the
under a
scheme from or indemnifying it against liability for breach of trust or the custodial
scheme
agreement where, having regard to the provisions of the trust deed or the custodial
agreement conferring on him any powers, authorities or discretion, he fails to
exercise the degree of care and diligence required of him as trustee or custodian.
Audit of 166.—(1) The manager of an authorised scheme shall cause proper books
accounts of a of account to be kept and annual accounts to be prepared which shall give a fair
scheme and
and true view of the affairs of the scheme during each year covered by the
annual
accounts and the accounts shall be audited by a person appointed as auditor by
general
the manager of the scheme with the consent of the trustee for the scheme.
meeting
(2) A copy of the auditors’ report on the accounts and of such account
certified by an auditor shall be sent by the manager to the Commission and
published within three months after the end of the period to which the accounts
relate as the Commission shall prescribe.
(3) The auditor shall certify that the scheme has been operated within the
provisions of this Act and the regulations prescribed by the Commission.
(4) The manager of an open-ended investment company and real estate
investment company shall call an annual general meeting of investors with the
consent of the trustee not later than four months after the end of each year, to
consider the accounts and other matters affecting the scheme.
(5) An extraordinary general meeting of unit holders of a scheme may be
convened —
(a) at the request of the trustees;
(b) by a requisition of 25% of unit holders; or
(c) by the court on application by a member where the court is satisfied
that it is just and equitable to do so.
Fair market 167. A unit or participatory interest shall be valued at its fair market price
price and the Commission may by regulation prescribe the mode and method of
determining the fair market price.
Investment 168.—(1) A scheme fund shall be invested by a manager in accordance
of a scheme with the provisions of the trust deed, custodial agreement or partnership agreement
fund
and other governing legal instruments with the objectives of safety and
maintenance of fair returns on amounts invested.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 125
(2) Subject to guidelines issued by the Commission, the funds and assets
of a scheme shall be invested in any of the following —
(a) bonds, SUKUK, bills and other securities issued, sponsored or
guaranteed by the Federal Government, government-sponsored or owned
agencies, and the Central Bank of Nigeria;
(b) securities of sub-nationals and supranationals;
(c) bonds, SUKUK, redeemable preference shares and other debt
instruments issued by corporate entities, where such securities are listed,
noted or traded or to be traded on a recognised exchange or platform and
registered under this Act;
(d) ordinary shares of public limited companies listed or traded on a securities
exchange and registered under this Act with good track records;
(e) created indices comprising basket of securities, commodities or
derivatives listed or traded or to be traded on a recognised exchange or
platform;
(f ) money market instruments, bank deposits and securities of issuers
that have been rated by rating agencies registered by the Commission;
(g) securities of an authorised closed-ended investment scheme, whether
or not listed on a securities exchange and registered under this Act;
(h) units of an open-end investment schemes registered by the Commission;
(i) real estate investment, private debt registered with the Commission,
commodities and derivatives traded on a securities exchange;
(j) securities listed or traded on a regulated exchange in a jurisdiction
which is a member of the International Organisation of Securities Commissions,
provided that investments in foreign securities shall not exceed 20% of the
assets under management or such percentage as may be prescribed by the
Commission;
(k) equity and debt securities of private companies, small and medium
enterprises, infrastructure projects, infrastructure companies, real estate
investment projects, real estate investment companies, or other alternative
asset classes as specified in the rules and regulations made under this Act,
provided that such scheme shall be strictly restricted to qualified investors as
a specialised or alternative investment scheme; or
(l) such other instruments as the Commission may prescribe.
(3) A manager may invest the funds and assets of a scheme fund in units
of any investment funds:
Provided that such investment fund may only be invested in the categories of
investments set out in subsection (2) and in real estate.
(4) The Commission may, by regulation, impose additional restrictions on
investments by a manager with the objects of protecting the interest of a scheme
or its beneficiaries.
A 126 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(5) For the purpose of complying with any guideline set by the Commission
as to the quality of financial instruments, debt securities, and issuers that scheme
assets may be invested in, and to ensure the safety of scheme assets in general,
a manager shall have due regard to the risk rating of instruments and issuers that
has been undertaken by a rating company registered under this Act.
Misappropria- 169.—(1) A manager, trustee or custodian shall not —
tion of
(a) misappropriate funds or securities of a client; or
clients’ funds
(b) withhold, refuse, neglect or otherwise fail to remit the proceeds of
sale of the client’s securities.
(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) commits
an offence and is liable on conviction, to a fine of not less than N50,000,000 or
an amount equivalent to four times the amount of profit derived by the person in
the transaction, whichever is higher, and a further sum of N50,000 for every
day the violation continues.
(3) In addition to the penalty prescribed under subsection (2) —
(a) the person referred to in subsections (1) and (2), shall be liable to
restitute to the client the loss suffered with interest at the prevailing commercial
bank rate; and
(b) the Commission may suspend or revoke the registration of the
participant, or take any other action as it may deem fit.
Investigation 170.—(1) The Commission may —
and
(a) undertake continuous inspection of the business operations as it relates
inspection
to a collective investment scheme’s authorised parties involved in the
management, administration and custody of assets of the scheme; or
(b) investigate the business of a person whether registered or not who is
involved in the unauthorised administration of a scheme or soliciting for
investment in a scheme.
(2) For the purposes of an investigation in terms of subsection (1), the
Commission may in writing direct such person to —
(a) provide it with any information, document or record about such
business; and
(b) appear before it at a specified time and place if the Commission has
reason to believe that such a person is contravening or failing to comply with
the provisions of this Act.
Powers of 171.—(1) Where the Commission, after an investigation or inspection
the under section 170 of this Act, considers that the interests of the investors of a
Commission scheme or of members of the public so require, it may —
after
investigation (a) direct a manager or a trustee or custodian to take any steps, or to
refrain from performing or continuing to perform any act, in order to terminate
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 127
or remedy any irregularity or undesirable practice or state of affairs disclosed
by an investigation or inspection;
(b) remove and replace any party in a manner as the Commission may
deem appropriate, and where the manager is removed, the trustee or custodian
shall in accordance with the Commission’s directives but subject to this Act
arrange for another manager to take-over the administration of the collective
investment scheme;
(c) require the trustee or manager to take steps, in accordance with the
Commission’s directives for the winding-up of a scheme, and for the realisation
of the assets and the distribution of the net proceeds, together with any income
accruals or other money available for distribution among the investors in
proportion to their respective participatory interests; or
(d) in the case of a scheme being administered by a capital market operator
in contravention of this Act, take steps in accordance with relevant provisions
of the rules and regulations to have the scheme wound up.
(2) A person who refuses or fails to comply with any directive made
under subsection (1) is liable to a penalty of not less than N5,000,000 and another
N50,000 per day for every day the violation continues.
172.—(1) The Commission may cancel the registration of a manager Cancellation
where — or
suspension
(a) the manager has contravened or failed to comply with any provision
of
of this Act or rules and regulations made under it, and that such contravention
registration
or failure has resulted or may result in serious prejudice to the interests of the of a manager
public or of investors;
(b) on completion of an investigation or inspection, the manner in which
a manager carries on the business of a collective investment scheme is
consistently unsatisfactory or undesirable or not calculated to serve the best
interests of its investors; or
(c) the manager is wound up, either voluntarily or by the court.
(2) Whenever there is cause to cancel the registration of a manager on any
of the grounds referred to in subsection (1), the Commission may, in lieu of
such cancellation, suspend the registration of the affected manager for a period
not more than 12 months at a time subject to such conditions as the Commission
may determine.
(3) The Commission may not cancel or suspend the registration of a
manager on any ground specified in subsection (1) unless it has —
(a) notified the manager of its intention and of the grounds upon which it
proposes to do so;
(b) allowed the manager to make representations to it in connection with
the proposed cancellation or suspension; and
A 128 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(c) afforded the manager a reasonable opportunity to rectify or eliminate
the defect, irregularity or undesirable practice.
(4) Where the registration of a manager is cancelled under subsection (1),
the provisions of this Act with regard to the continuance or the winding-up of a
scheme or the winding- up of the manager, shall apply:
Provided that the Commission may in any such case direct the former manager
to defray, in whole or in part, the expenses incurred in continuing the
administration of the scheme, or in realising any of its assets, and any
remuneration to which a trustee or custodian may be entitled.
(5) Where the registration of a manager has been suspended under subsection
(2), the manager shall not, during the period of suspension, issue any fresh
participatory interests, but shall, in respect of participatory interests already
issued, transfer the administration of the scheme to the trustee or custodian
pending the appointment of another manager approved by the Commission on
the recommendation of the trustee or custodian.
Objection to 173. The Commission may object to the terms of any price list,
misleading advertisement, brochure or similar document relating to a scheme published or
terms in a proposed to be published by a manager or any of its authorised agents, if the
publication
Commission considers the terms are calculated to mislead or are, for any other
good and sufficient reason, objectionable or undesirable, and the Commission
may direct the manager to discontinue or refrain from publishing or distributing
any such document or to amend its terms.
Power of the 174.—(1) The Commission may direct a manager to audit all books of
Commission accounts and financial statements and submit the results of such an audit to the
to request
Commission within the time specified by the Commission.
audit
(2) A person who, in respect of an audit contemplated in subsection (1),
gives information, an explanation or access to records which he knows to be
false or misleading commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of
N1,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of one year or both.
Irregular or 175.—(1) The Commission may, by notice declare a particular practice or
undesirable manner of administration of schemes to be an “irregular or undesirable practice”
practices or an “undesirable manner of administration”.
(2) A person shall not, after 21 days from the date of publication of the
notice whereby a practice or manner of administration has been declared to be
irregular or undesirable, employ such a practice or manner of administration
otherwise than for the sole purpose of fulfilling any obligation entered into before
the date of such notice or to comply with any directive by the Commission
under subsection (3).
(3) The Commission may in writing direct any person who employed a
practice or manner of administration which was declared to be irregular or
undesirable under subsection (1) to rectify anything which was caused by or
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 129
arose out of the employment of that irregular or undesirable practice or manner
of administration whether or not it occurred before, during or after the date of
the declaration referred to in subsection (1).
(4) A person who has been directed under subsection (3) to rectify anything
shall effect such rectification within three days after being so directed or within
such longer time as the Commission may approve.
(5) A person who —
(a) contravenes subsection (2),
(b) refuses or fails to comply with a direction referred to in subsection
(3), or
(c) fails to comply with subsection (4),
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than
N10,000,000 or to imprisonment for a term not less than two years or both.
176.—(1) A manager shall appoint either a trustee or a custodian for any Appointment
scheme managed by it having regard to the structure of the scheme. and
termination
(2) A person may not become or act as a trustee or custodian unless that
of
person is registered as such by the Commission. appointment
of trustee or
(3) A trustee or custodian intending to resign from an appointment under
custodian
this section, shall give to the manager and the Commission not less than three
months’ notice of such intention, and during three months period, the manager
concerned shall take steps to appoint another trustee or custodian competent to
act as such.
(4) The appointment of a trustee or custodian shall not be terminated
except with prior approval of the Commission, and the manager shall give not
less than 30 days’ notice to the Commission, the trustee or custodian of its
intention to terminate such appointment stating reasons for the termination.
(5) Where the appointment of a trustee or custodian is terminated, the
trustee or custodian shall within seven days submit a report to the Commission
stating —
(a) the assets and liabilities of the scheme;
(b) whether any irregularity or undesirable practice has taken place or is
taking place in the conduct of the affairs of the scheme which has caused or
is likely to cause financial loss to investors in a portfolio of the scheme;
(c) particulars of any such irregularity or undesirable practice; and
(d) the reason, if known, for the termination of the appointment.
(6) Where a trustee or custodian fails to take the steps specified in
subsection (3) within the period of three months, the Commission shall direct
the manager to appoint as trustee or custodian a competent person approved by
the Commission.
A 130 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(7) Where it is impracticable for a trustee or custodian to discharge any or
all of its duties, the trustee or custodian may with the approval of the Commission
appoint a representative which is independent from the manager and any of its
agents, to discharge such duties.
(8) A trustee or custodian of a scheme who has appointed a representative
under subsection (7), is not relieved of any of its responsibilities or duties under
the scheme.
Qualification 177.—(1) The Commission may by regulation prescribe the qualification
and and conditions for any person or institution to become or act as a manager,
registration trustee or custodian to a collective investment scheme.
of trustee or
custodian (2) A company or institution referred to in subsection (1) may not become
or act as a manager, trustee or custodian unless it maintains capital and reserves
as may be prescribed by the Commission.
(3) The Commission may not approve the appointment of a person as a
trustee or custodian unless it is satisfied that the —
(a) person is not in relation to the manager, either a holding company or a
Act No. 3, subsidiary or related company within the meaning of those terms as defined
2020 in the Companies and Allied Matters Act;
(b) person or a related party does not have significant shareholdings with
the manager, or hold board appointment with the manager; and
(c) general financial and commercial standing and independence of the
person is such that it is fit for performing the functions of a trustee or custodian
and that the person is by reason of the nature of its business sufficiently
experienced and equipped to perform such functions.
Suspension 178.—(1) The Commission may revoke or suspend the registration of a
or revocation trustee or custodian, where the Commission is no longer satisfied that the
of
requirements contained in section 177 of this Act are met by the trustee or
registration
custodian.
of a trustee
or custodian (2) The Commission shall, before revoking or suspending a registration
under subsection (1), notify the trustee or custodian concerned of the grounds
on which such action is and shall a reasonable opportunity of showing cause
why the proposed action should not be taken.
Duties of 179.—(1) A trustee or custodian shall —
trustees or
(a) ensure that the basis on which the sale, issue, repurchase or cancellation,
custodians
as the case may be, of participatory interests effected by or on behalf of a
scheme is carried out in accordance with this Act, and rules and regulations
under this Act;
(b) ensure that the selling or repurchase price of participatory interests is
calculated in accordance with the rules and regulations made under this Act,
the trust deed or custodial agreement;
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 131
(c) verify that, in transactions involving the assets of a scheme, any
consideration is remitted within time limits which are acceptable market
practice in the context of a particular transaction;
(d) verify that the income accruals of a portfolio are applied in accordance
with this Act and the trust deed or custodial agreement;
(e) inquire into and prepare a report on the administration of the scheme
by the manager during each annual accounting period, in which it shall be
stated whether the scheme has been administered in accordance with the
provisions of this Act, the rules and regulations made under this Act, and the
trust deed or custodial agreement;
(f ) if the manager does not comply with the limitations and provisions
referred to in paragraph (e), state the reason for the non-compliance and
outline the steps taken by the manager to rectify the situation;
(g) send the report referred to in paragraph (e) to the Commission and to
the manager to enable the manager include a copy of the report in its annual
report; and
(h) ensure that —
(i) there is a legal separation of assets held under custody and that the
legal entitlement of investors to such assets is assured, and
(ii) appropriate internal control systems are maintained and that records
clearly identify the nature and value of all assets under custody, the
ownership of each asset and the place where documents of title pertaining
to each asset are kept.
(2) A trustee or custodian shall report to the manager any irregularity or
undesirable practice, concerning the collective investment scheme of which it is
aware and if steps to rectify the irregularity or practice in question are not taken
to the satisfaction of the trustee or custodian, it shall report such irregularity or
undesirable practice to the Commission within the period prescribed in the rules
and regulations made under this Act.
(3) The trustee or custodian shall satisfy himself that every income
statement, balance sheet or other return prepared by the manager under section
166 of this Act, fairly represents the assets and liabilities, and the income
and distribution of income, of every portfolio of the scheme administered by
the manager.
(4) At the request of the trustee or custodian, every director or employee
of the manager shall submit to the trustee or custodian any record, book or
document or information relating to the administration by the manager of its
collective investment scheme which is in its possession or at its disposal, and
which the trustee or custodian may consider necessary to perform its functions.
A 132 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(5) In addition to the duties contained in this section, the trustee or custodian
shall discharge such other duties as may be prescribed in the rules and regulations
made under this Act.
(6) A person shall not interfere with the performance by a trustee or
custodian of its functions under this Act and rules and regulations made under
this Act.
(7) A trustee or custodian of a scheme which fails to discharge any of its
duties referred to in this section, is liable to a penalty of not less than N50,000,000
in the first instance and N50,000 for every day the violation continues.
Status of 180. For the purpose of this Act any money or other assets received from
assets an investor and assets of a scheme, are regarded as being trust property.
Liability of 181. The custodian shall indemnify the investors against any loss or damage
custodian for suffered in respect of money or other assets in the custody of the custodian and
loss of which loss or damage is caused by a willful or negligent act or omission by the
assets
custodian.
Appointment 182.—(1) A manager in consultation with the trustee or custodian shall
and removal appoint an auditor registered by the Commission for the purpose of auditing the
of auditor
whole of the business of the scheme administered by it.
(2) A director or employee of a manager, trustee or custodian and a firm
of which any such director or employee is a member shall not be appointed as an
auditor of a scheme.
(3) A manager shall within 30 days from the date of appointment of an
auditor apply to the Commission for the approval of such appointment.
(4) The Commission may withdraw a prior approval of the appointment
of an auditor.
(5) An auditor may be removed by the manager in consultation with the
trustee or custodian and the Commission shall accordingly be informed by the
manager.
Duty of 183.—(1) The auditor shall —
auditor to
(a) report to the manager and trustee any irregularity or undesirable practice
disclose
irregularity in the administration of the scheme which has come to his notice in the
or ordinary course of fulfilling his audit responsibilities or performing other
undesirable functions under this Act; and
practice
(b) submit a copy of such report to the Commission, where there is
reasonable cause to believe that the report is or might be of material significance
to the Commission, within a period not more than 10 working days from the
day the irregularity was observed.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 133
(2) For the purposes of this section, a report is of material significance to
the Commission if it deals with a matter which, because of its nature or potential
financial impact, has caused or is likely to cause financial loss to the scheme or
any of its investors or creditors.
(3) An auditor who fails to discharge any of the duties referred to in this
section, is liable to a penalty of not less than N5,000,000.
184.—(1) The Commission may make regulations as to the constitution Power to
and management of collective investment schemes, the powers and duties of the make
manager and trustee or custodian of any such scheme, and the rights and regulations
on the
obligations of persons participating in any such scheme.
constitution
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the Commission and
may make regulations under this section — management
of
(a) as to the issue and redemption of the units or participatory interest in
collective
the scheme; investments
(b) as to the expenses of the scheme and the means of meeting them; scheme
(c) for the appointment, removal, powers and duties of an auditor for the
scheme;
(d) for restricting or regulating the investment and borrowing powers
exercisable in relation to a scheme;
(e) requiring the keeping of records with respect to the transactions and
financial position of the scheme and for the inspection of those records;
(f ) requiring the preparation of periodic reports with respect to the scheme
and the furnishing of those reports to the participants and the Commission; and
(g) with respect to the amendment of the scheme.
(3) Regulations made under this section —
(a) may make provision as to the contents of the trust deed or custodial
agreement, including provision requiring any of the matters mentioned in
subsection (2) to be dealt with in the trust deed or custodial agreement;
(b) shall be binding on the manager, trustee, custodian, participants
independent of the contents of the trust deed or custodial agreement and, in
the case of the participants, shall have effect as if contained in it;
(c) may impose limits on the remuneration payable to the manager of a
scheme;
(d) may contain such incidental and transitional provisions as the
Commission deems necessary or expedient; and
(e) may exempt any scheme designated as a specialised or alternative
investment scheme by the Commission from the applicability of any provision
of this Part.
A 134 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Alteration of 185.—(1) The manager of a scheme shall give written notice to the
schemes and Commission of any —
replacement
of manager, (a) proposed alteration to the scheme; and
trustee or (b) proposal to replace the trustee or custodian of the scheme.
custodian
(2) Any notice given in respect of a proposed alteration involving a
change in the trust deed or custodial agreement or any governing document,
shall be accompanied by a certificate signed by a legal practitioner to the
effect that the change shall not affect the compliance of the trust deed or
custodial agreement or any governing document with this Act and rules and
regulations made under this Act.
(3) The trustee or custodian of a scheme shall give written notice to the
Commission of any proposal to replace the manager of the scheme or in the case
of an investment company replace the board of directors or transfer the assets
of the scheme to a new scheme or wind-up the scheme.
(4) Effect shall not be given to any of the proposals referred to in subsections
(1) and (3) unless —
(a) the Commission has given its approval to the proposal; or
(b) one month has elapsed since the date on which the notice was given
under subsection (1) or (3) without the Commission having notified the
manager or trustee that the proposal is not approved.
(5) The manager or the trustee or custodian of a scheme shall not be
replaced except by persons who satisfy the requirements of section 177 of this
Act and the rules and regulations made under it:
Provided that where any of them has been so replaced, the former manager or
trustee or custodian, shall within 14 days, handover all properties and documents
of the scheme in his possession to the trustee or custodian and, in the case of a
trustee or custodian, to the manager.
Restriction 186.—(1) The manager of a scheme shall not engage in activities other
of activities than those mentioned in subsection (2).
of managers
(2) The activities referred to in subsection (1) are —
(a) acting as manager of —
(i) a scheme,
(ii) an open-ended investment company or any body corporate whose
business consists of investing its funds with the aim of spreading investment
risk and giving its members the benefit of the expert management of its
funds by or on behalf of that body, or
(iii) any other scheme under which the contributions of the participants
and the profits or income out of which payments are to be made to them
are pooled; and
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 135
(b) activities for the purposes of or in connection with those activities
mentioned in paragraph (a).
187.—(1) The manager of a scheme shall publish particulars of the scheme Publication
or make available to the public, upon request, any document containing of scheme
information about the scheme in a manner prescribed by the Commission. particulars
(2) Regulations made under this section may —
(a) require the manager of a scheme to submit and publish or make available
revised or further scheme particulars where —
(i) there is a significant change affecting any matter contained in such
particulars previously published or made available which inclusion was
required by the regulation, or
(ii) a significant new matter has arisen, disclosure of which would
have been required in previous particulars if it had arisen when those
particulars were prepared; or
(b) provide for the payment of compensation to any person who has
become or agreed to become participant in the scheme and suffered loss as a
result of —
(i) any untrue or misleading statement in the particulars; or
(ii) the omission from the particulars of any matter required by the
regulations to be included by the person or persons who in accordance
with the regulations are treated as responsible for any scheme particulars.
(3) Regulations made under this section shall not affect any liability which
any person may incur apart from the regulations.
188.—(1) Where it appears to the Commission that — Power of
intervention
(a) any of the requirements for the registration of a scheme is no longer
satisfied;
(b) the manager or trustee or custodian of such a scheme has contravened
any provision of this Act or any rules or regulations made under it or, in
purported compliance with any such provisions has furnished the Commission
with false, inaccurate or misleading information or has contravened any
prohibition or requirement imposed under this Act; or
(c) it is desirable in the interests of participants or potential participants in
the scheme, the Commission may give directives in accordance with the
provisions of subsection (2).
(2) The directives referred to in subsection (1) may —
(a) require the manager of the scheme to cease the issue or redemption,
or both the issue and redemption of units or participatory interest in the scheme
on a date specified in the directive until such further date as is specified in
that order or directive;
A 136 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(b) require the manager and trustee or custodian of the scheme to wind it
up by such date as is specified in the directive or if no date is specified, as
soon as practicable; or
(c) appoint any person to take-over and discharge the duties of the manager
or trustee or custodian for such interim period as may be required pending
the appointment of such manager, trustee or custodian under the provisions
of the trust deed or custodial agreement.
(3) The revocation of the registration of a scheme shall not affect the
operation of any directive under subsection (1).
Issuance of 189.—(1) Where the Commission —
directive or
(a) gives a directive under section 188 of this Act, or
its
revocation (b) revokes such directive otherwise than at the request of the manager or
trustee or custodian of the scheme,
it shall give the applicants or, as the case may be, the manager and trustee or
custodian of the scheme written notice of its intention to do so stating the reasons
for which it proposes to act and giving particulars of the rights conferred by
subsection (2).
(2) A person on whom a notice is served under subsection (1) may, within
21 days of the date of service, make written representations to the Commission
and, if desired, oral representations to a person appointed for that purpose by
the Commission.
(3) The Commission shall have regard to representations made in
accordance with subsection (2) in determining whether to refuse the application
or revoke the order.
Investment 190.—(1) An open-ended investment company shall be registered by the
company Commission if —
(a) it is a body incorporated in accordance with the Companies and Allied
Matters Act;
(b) it has capital and reserve as prescribed by the Commission;
(c) its article of association provide that it may acquire its own shares; and
(d) it satisfies all other conditions which may be prescribed by the
Commission.
(2) Upon registration, the assets and investments of an open-ended
investment company shall be in the custody of a registered custodian.
Real estate 191.—(1) A body corporate incorporated for the sole purpose of acquiring
investment intermediate or long term interests in real estate or property development may
raise funds from the capital market through the issue of securities which shall
have the following characteristics —
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 137
(a) an income certificate giving the investor a right to a share of the
income of any property or property development;
(b) an ordinary share in the body corporate giving the investor voting
rights in the management of that body corporate; and
(c) such other feature as the Commission may prescribe.
(2) Under this Act, a trust may be constituted for the sole purpose of
acquiring a property on a ‘’trust for sale” for the investors.
(3) In the trust referred to in subsection (2), investors shall be entitled to —
(a) receive a periodic distribution of income and participate in any capital
appreciation of the property concerned; and
(b) retain control over their investments by investing directly in a particular
property rather than in a portfolio of investments.
(4) The Commission shall make rules and regulations regulating the activities
and securities whether described as asset backed-securities or otherwise of real
estate investment companies or trusts referred to in subsections (1) and (2).
192. A real estate investment company may be registered by the Commission Registration
if it — of real estate
investment
(a) is a body incorporated under the Companies and Allied Matters Act;
company
(b) has a capital and reserve as prescribed by the Commission;
(c) carries on business as a collective investment scheme solely in
properties; and
(d) complies with the requirement prescribed by the Commission through
its rules and regulations.
193.—(1) The Commission may approve an application by a manager or Foreign
operator of a scheme administered in a foreign jurisdiction to solicit investment collective
in such scheme from investors in Nigeria where — investment
schemes
(a) the application complies with the conditions prescribed by the
Commission; and
(b) a copy of the approval or registration by the relevant foreign regulator
authorising the foreign collective investment scheme to act as such is filed
with the Commission.
(2) A person who invites the public to invest in a foreign collective
investment scheme which is not approved by the Commission shall in addition
to restituting the investors of deposits received, be liable to a penalty of not less
than N10,000,000 or 10% of the gross value of the participatory interest of the
scheme, whichever is higher.
(3) Where any person acquires or disposes of any participatory interest in
a scheme, or deposits money with any company as a result of an invitation to the
public made in breach of subsection (2), he shall be entitled to —
(a) rescind such transactions; and
A 138 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(b) either in addition to or in place of rescinding the transaction, recover
compensation for any loss sustained by him from any person who is liable in
respect of the breach.
Appointment 194.—(1) The Commission may appoint one or more competent inspectors
of inspectors to investigate and report on the affairs of the —
(a) manager, trustee or custodian of any scheme;
(b) operator, trustee or custodian of any recognised foreign scheme relating
to activities carried on in Nigeria; or
(c) operator, trustee or custodian of, any other scheme if it appears to the
Commission that it is in the interest of the participants to do so or that the
matter is of public concern.
(2) An inspector appointed under subsection (1) to investigate the affairs of
the manager, trustee, custodian or operator of any scheme may also, if necessary
for the purpose of that investigation, investigate the affairs of, the manager, trustee,
custodian or operator of, any other such scheme as is mentioned in subsection (1)
whose manager, trustee, custodian or operator is the same person as the manager,
trustee, custodian or operator of the first-mentioned scheme.
(3) Where a person claims a lien on a document, its production shall be
without prejudice to the lien.
(4) Nothing in this section shall require a person carrying on the business
of banking to disclose any information or produce any document relating to the
affairs of a customer unless the —
(a) customer is a person whom the inspector has reason to believe may be
able to give information relevant to the investigation; and
(b) Commission is satisfied that the disclosure or production is necessary
for the purpose of the investigation.
(5) An inspector appointed under this section shall if so directed by the
Commission, make interim reports to the Commission and on the conclusion of
his investigation shall make a final report to the Commission.
(6) A report made under subsection (5) shall be written or printed as the
Commission may direct and the Commission may, if it deems fit —
(a) furnish a copy, on request and on payment of the prescribed fee, to
the manager, trustee, custodian or operator or any participant in a scheme
under investigation or any other person whose conduct is referred to in the
report; and
(b) cause the report to be published on its website and by any other means
it deems fit.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 139
195. With the exception of specialised or alternative scheme, collective Treatment of
investment schemes shall be treated as pass-through vehicles for purposes of collective
taxation. investment
schemes
196.—(1) The Commission shall have the power to enter and seal up all Prohibited
prohibited schemes and shall obtain an order of the Tribunal or a court to freeze schemes
and forfeit all assets of such schemes to the Federal Government of Nigeria.
(2) The cost and expenses incurred under subsection (1) shall be a first
charge from the funds and properties of the illegal scheme including assets of its
owners, promoters or managers, whether acquired legitimately or otherwise.
(3) The promoter and operator of any entity engaged in a prohibited scheme
commits an offence and are liable on conviction to a fine of not less than
N20,000,000 or imprisonment to a term of 10 years or both.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3), the Commission
shall be entitled to recover expenses incurred in the course of investigating such
prohibited schemes through the office of the Attorney-General of the Federation.
197. Terms used in this Part shall be construed as defined in section 357 Terms used
of this Act. in this Part
PART XIV — INVESTOR PROTECTION FUND
198.—(1) An exchange shall establish and maintain a fund to be known as Establishment
the investor protection fund. of an
investor
(2) An investor protection fund shall be administered by a board of trustees’
protection
subject to the regulatory supervision of the Commission. fund
(3) The assets of an investor protection fund shall be vested in the board
of trustees and kept separate and applied for the purposes as set out in this Part.
199. The objectives of an investor protection fund shall be to compensate Objectives
investors who suffer pecuniary loss arising from — of investor
protection
(a) the insolvency, bankruptcy or negligence of a license holder firm of an
fund
exchange;
(b) defalcation committed by a dealing member firm or any of its directors,
officers, employees or representatives in relation to securities, money or any
property entrusted to, or received or deemed received by the dealing member
firm in the course of its business as a capital market operator; or
(c) revocation or cancellation of the registration of a dealing member firm
under section 61 (6) of this Act.
A 140 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Composition 200.—(1) The board of trustees of an investor protection fund shall consist
and tenure of of a maximum of nine members, comprising of —
board of
trustees (a) a representative from the dealing member firms;
(b) a representative from the exchange;
(c) a representative from one of the financial market infrastructures;
(d) a representative of the Commission;
(e) one person representing the institutional investors;
(f ) a representative of association of capital market registrars or custodians;
(g) one person with proven integrity, who is knowledgeable in capital
market matters;
(h) one person representing a registered association of the relevant investor
class; and
(i) one person who shall be a legal practitioner knowledgeable in capital
market matters.
(2) A member of the board of trustees shall —
(a) be appointed by the board of an exchange on the recommendation of
the body he represents; and
(b) hold office for a term of three years and may be re-appointed for a
further term of three years and no more, on the recommendation of the body
he represents.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2), the board of trustees
may appoint a member whose tenure has expired as a temporary member provided
that such appointment shall be for a maximum term of six months and no more.
(4) A temporary member appointed under subsection (3) may exercise all
the rights, privileges and responsibilities of a board member.
Removal 201. A member of the board of trustees shall cease to be a member if —
from the
(a) before the expiration of his tenure, he ceases to be a member of the
board of
trustees body he represents on the board of trustees;
(b) his membership on the board of trustees is withdrawn by the body he
represents and on whose recommendation he was appointed;
(c) he is guilty of any crime involving dishonesty or sanctioned for
misconduct by any professional body or association; or
(d) on a resolution of the other members of the board of trustees supported
by at least two-thirds of its membership, is adjudged to be engaged in activities
prejudicial to or inconsistent with his position as a member of the board of
trustees.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 141
202. Without prejudice to the provisions of the Trustees Investments Act, Powers of
the board of trustees shall have power to — the board of
trustees
(a) administer the investor protection fund as to engender investors’
Cap T22,
confidence and promote general market development;
LFN 2004
(b) prepare its own rules governing the operations and effective management
of the investor protection fund subject to the approval of the exchange and
the Commission; and
(c) perform any act incidental to or in relation with the operation and
management of the investor protection fund.
203. An investor protection fund shall consist of — Money
accruing to
(a) all money paid to the board of trustees by dealing members of the
the investor
exchange in respect of which an investor protection fund has been established
protection
as may be prescribed by the exchange; fund
(b) the interest and profits accruing from the investment of an investor
protection fund;
(c) all money paid to an investor protection fund by the exchange in
accordance with the provisions of this Part;
(d) all money recovered by or on behalf of the board of trustees in the
exercise of any right of action conferred by this Part;
(e) all money paid by an insurer under any contract of insurance or
indemnity entered into by a dealing member or the board of trustees;
(f ) all money held by any investor protection fund or by whatever
name so called, established by the exchange prior to the coming into effect
of this Act; and
(g) all other money lawfully paid into an investor protection fund.
204. All money forming a part of an investor protection fund shall be paid Fund to be
or transferred into a separate bank account in Nigeria pending the investment or kept in
separate
application of such money in accordance with the provisions of this Part.
bank account
205.—(1) The board of trustees may apply the funds of an investor Payment out
protection fund for payment of — of the
investor
(a) claims by investors arising from the insolvency, bankruptcy or
protection
negligence of a failed dealing member firm as may be ascertained, determined
fund
or directed under the provisions of this Act;
(b) claims, including costs, of an investor allowed by the exchange, arising
from defalcation committed by a dealing member firm or any of its directors,
officers, employees or representatives in relation to securities, money or any
property entrusted to, or received or deemed received by the dealing member
firm in the course of its business as a capital market operator;
A 142 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(c) any amount ordered to be paid as compensation to an investor by the
Commission or the Tribunal in respect of any claim or loss arising from
defalcation as provided for in section 214 of this Act;
(d) claims arising from losses incurred by revocation or cancellation of
the registration of a dealing member firm under the provisions of section 61
(6) of this Act;
(e) all legal, professional and other expenses incurred in investigating or
defending claims made under this Part of the Act or incurred in relation to an
investor protection fund or in the exercise by the board of trustees of the rights,
powers and authority vested in it by this Part of the Act in relation to an investor
protection fund;
(f ) all premiums payable in respect of contracts of insurance or indemnity
entered into by the board of trustees;
(g) the expenses incurred or involved in the administration of the investor
protection fund including the salaries and wages of persons employed by the
board of trustees in relation to it; and
(h) all other money payable out of an investor protection fund in accordance
with the provisions of this Act.
(2) Payment of any claim, award, or order for compensation under
subsection (1) (a)-(d), shall be made subject to such limitations on the amount
that may be claimed as determined by the board of trustees and approved by the
Commission.
Accounts of 206.—(1) A board of trustees shall establish and keep proper books of
investor accounts in relation to an investor protection fund and shall, not later than three
protection months following the end of the financial year of the fund, cause the income and
fund
expenditure for the year and a balance sheet to be published.
(2) An exchange shall, on the recommendation of the board of trustees,
appoint an auditor to audit the accounts of the investor protection fund
established by it.
(3) The auditor appointed under subsection (2) shall regularly and thoroughly
audit the accounts of the investor protection fund and shall complete the audit
not later than one month following the period referred to in subsection (1) to
enable the audited accounts to be submitted by the board of trustees to the
Commission not later than two months following the period referred to in
subsection (1).
Board of 207.—(1) The board of trustees may for the purpose of management of
trustees may the investor protection fund appoint a management subcommittee of at least
delegate three and not more than five persons.
functions
(2) The board of trustees may by resolution delegate to a subcommittee
appointed under subsection (1) all or any of its powers.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 143
(3) Any power, authority or discretion so delegated by the board of trustees
may be exercised by members forming a majority of the subcommittee as if that
power, authority or discretion had been conferred on a majority of the members
of the subcommittee.
(4) Any delegation by the board of trustees may at any time in like manner
be rescinded or varied.
(5) The board of trustees may at any time remove any member of a
subcommittee appointed by it under this section and may fill any vacancy in the
subcommittee.
(6) A decision of a subcommittee of the board of trustees shall be of no
effect until it is confirmed or ratified by the board of trustees.
208.—(1) An investor protection fund shall consist of such minimum Minimum
amount as may by regulation be approved by the Commission to be paid to the amount in
credit of the investor protection fund on the establishment of an exchange. investor
protection
(2) The board of trustees shall have the discretion to determine the amount fund
or minimum amounts to be contributed by each dealing member firm to the fund
subject to the approval of the exchange.
209. Where for any reason, the investor protection fund falls below the Protection of
minimum amount approved for an exchange, the board of trustees shall take the investor
steps to make up for the deficiency — protection
fund
(a) by direct transfer to the investor protection fund of an amount which
is equal to the deficiency from other funds of the exchange; or
(b) in the event that there are insufficient funds to transfer under paragraph
(a), by determining the amount which each dealing member shall contribute
to the investor protection fund.
210.—(1) Where at any time the amount available in an investor protection Levy to
fund is not sufficient to satisfy the liabilities which are ascertained against any meet
dealing member firm, the exchange on the recommendation of the board of liabilities
trustees may impose on any or every dealing member firm a levy of such amount
as it deems fit to meet the deficiency.
(2) The amount of such levy shall be paid within the time and in the
manner specified by the board of trustees either generally or in relation to any
particular case.
211. An exchange may, from its general funds, give or advance any sums Power of an
of money to an investor protection fund on such terms and conditions as it may exchange to
deem fit. make an
advance to
an investor
protection
fund
A 144 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Investment 212. The board of trustees of an investor protection fund shall determine
of the funds the manner of investing the money accruing to the fund as authorised by the
of an
Trustee Investments Act.
investor
protection
fund
Act. T22,
LFN 2004
Application 213.—(1) The funds of an investor protection fund shall be held and
of the funds
applied for compensating persons who suffer pecuniary loss from —
of an
investor (a) the revocation or cancellation of the registration of a capital market
protection operator under the provisions of section 61(6) of this Act;
fund
(b) the insolvency, bankruptcy or negligence of a dealing member firm, or
member company of an exchange; and
(c) any defalcation committed by a member company or any of its directors
or employees in relation to any money or other property which, was entrusted
or received or deemed received by a member company or any of its directors
or employees whether before or after commencement of this Act in the course
of or in connection with the business of that company or any other occurrence
in respect of which the claim arose.
(2) For the purposes of this section, “a director of a member company or
dealing member firm” includes a person who, as at the time of the defalcation in
question has been or has ceased to be a director of a member company or
dealing member firm if, at the time of the defalcation the person claiming
compensation has reasonable grounds for believing that person to be a director
of a member company or dealing member firm.
Claims 214.—(1) A claim for compensation relating to a defalcation by a license
against a holder shall first be made to such license holder where it is not insolvent or
license bankrupt and the license holder shall settle the claim within 14 days or such
holder
other period as may be approved by the Commission.
(2) Where the license holder fails to settle the claim, under subsection (1),
the investor shall be entitled to make a claim to the investor protection fund of
the exchange.
(3) Where the fund settles the claim under subsection (2), the exchange
shall proceed against the license holder to recover the amount paid in settling the
claim.
Claims 215.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, a person who suffers
against an pecuniary loss as provided in section 213 of this Act shall be entitled to claim
investor compensation from the investor protection fund established for the exchange to
protection
which the defaulting member company or dealing member firm belongs.
fund
(2) A claim for compensation shall first be made to the defaulting capital
market operator who committed the defalcation.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 145
(3) Where the capital market operator is unable to satisfy the claim, a
claim for compensation under this Part shall be made to an exchange which shall
within 90 days verify every claim and determine the amount or extent, if any, to
which the claim shall be allowed.
(4) Subject to fulfilling such preconditions for compensation as may have
been prescribed by the board of trustees, a verified claim shall be paid by the
investor protection fund to an investor within 14 days of such verification by
the exchange.
(5) The provisions of subsection (3) shall be without prejudice to the
power of the Commission or the Tribunal to direct or order the payment of
compensation in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
(6) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), a person shall not have any claim
against an investor protection fund in respect of a defalcation concerning money
or other property which, prior to the commission of the defalcation, had in the
due course of the administration of a trust ceased to be under the control of the
director or directors of the dealing member firm concerned.
(7) Subject to this Part and any limit that may be determined by the
exchange and approved by the Commission, the amount which any claimant
shall be entitled to claim as compensation from an investor protection fund shall
be the amount of the actual pecuniary loss suffered by the person, including the
reasonable cost of disbursement incidental to the making and proving of the
claim, less any amount or value of all money or other benefits received or
receivable by the person from any source other than the investor protection
fund in reduction of the loss.
(8) In addition to any compensation payable under this Part, interest shall
be payable out of the investor protection fund concerned on the amount of the
compensation, less any amount attributable to costs and disbursements, at a rate
to be determined by the board of trustees.
216.—(1) The Commission or an exchange may cause to be published in Notice
any two national daily newspapers circulating in Nigeria, a notice, in or to the calling for
effect of a form prescribed by the Commission, specifying a date, not being claims
against the
earlier than one month after the publication, on which claims for compensation
investor
from the investor protection fund, in relation to the person specified in the notice,
protection
may be made.
fund
(2) A claim for compensation under this Part shall be made in writing to
the board of trustees within six years from the date of occurrence of the
defalcation, revocation or cancellation of the registration of the dealing member
firm and insolvency or bankruptcy of the dealing member firm, and any claim
which is not so made shall be barred unless the Commission by its rules and
regulations determines otherwise.
A 146 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(3) An action for damages shall not lie against an exchange or against any
member or employee of an exchange or of a board of trustees or management
subcommittee by reason of any notice published in good faith and without malice
for the purposes of this section.
Power to 217. The board of trustees may, subject to this Part, settle any claim for
settle claims compensation from an investor protection fund as may be determined, by an
exchange, the Commission or the Tribunal.
Form of 218. Where, in any proceedings brought before the Tribunal to establish a
order of the claim, the Tribunal is satisfied that the claimant has a valid claim, the Tribunal
Tribunal shall by order —
(a) declare the fact and the date of the defalcation or other loss suffered
by a claimant;
(b) declare the claim payable; and
(c) direct that the investor protection fund concerned settles the claim so
declared and deal with the same in accordance with the provisions of this Part.
Power to 219. The exchange, Commission or Tribunal may require any person to
require produce and deliver any securities, documents or statements of evidence
production necessary to support any claim made or necessary for the purpose of determining
of evidence
a claim or for any other proceedings in connection with any matter pending
before it.
Subrogation 220. On payment out of an investor protection fund of any money in
respect of any claim under this Part, the board of trustees of an investor protection
fund shall be subrogated, to the extent of the payment made out of the investor
protection fund, to all the rights and remedies of the claimant in relation to the
loss suffered by him.
Application 221. A claimant against an investor protection fund shall not have any right
of insurance of action against any person with whom a contract of insurance or indemnity is
money made under this Part in respect of such contract, or have any right or claim with
respect to any money paid by the insurer in accordance with such contract.
Penalty for 222. An exchange, its director, official or employee, who contravenes any
contravention of the provisions of this Part, is liable to a penalty of N1,000,000 and a further
sum of N25,000 for every day during which the violation continues.
Terms used 223. Terms used in this Part shall be construed as defined in section 357
in this Part of this Act.
PART XV — COMMODITIES EXCHANGE AND WAREHOUSE RECEIPTS
A — COMMODITIES EXCHANGE
Establishment 224.—(1) A person shall not establish or maintain or hold himself out as
of providing or maintaining a commodity exchange unless such exchange has been
commodities registered by the Commission.
exchanges
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 147
(2) A person who contravenes this provision commits an offence and is
liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N10,000,000 or imprisonment for
a term not more than five years or both.
(3) The Commission may, in lieu of prosecution under subsection (2),
impose a penalty of at least the prescribed paid-up share capital of the relevant
securities exchange as specified by the Commission and a further sum of not
less than N100,000 for every day the violation continues.
225.—(1) The Commission shall prescribe the minimum share capital for Conditions
a commodities exchange. for
registration
(2) A commodities exchange shall be an entity incorporated or registered
in Nigeria as defined in the interpretation section of this Act.
(3) An application for registration shall be accompanied by particulars,
including rules of an exchange, and such other information as the Commission
may by regulations require.
(4) The Commission may, in considering an application, have regard to
any information in its possession whether provided by the applicant or not.
(5) Where the Commission discovers that the information referred to in
subsection (3) adversely affects the application for registration, the Commission
shall forward such information to the applicant for clarification.
(6) Where the Commission considers the clarification provided under
subsection (5) unsatisfactory it shall refuse the application.
226.—(1) A commodities exchange shall make rules for the effective Rules of
performance of its functions, which rules shall be subject to the prior approval commodities
of the Commission. exchange
(2) The rules of an exchange shall provide for —
(a) the exclusion from trading on its platform, persons who are not of
good character and who do not possess a high degree of business integrity;
(b) the expulsion, suspension, or discipline of license holders for conduct
inconsistent with just and equitable principles in the transaction of commodities
business, or for contravention of or failure to comply with the rules of the
commodities exchange or the provisions of this Act;
(c) the conditions under which commodities may be listed, quoted or
admitted on that commodities exchange;
(d) the conditions governing dealings in commodities by the license holders;
(e) the types of commodities which may be dealt in by license holders; and
(f ) a fair representation of persons in the selection of members of the
board or license holders of the commodities exchange and the administration
of its affairs.
A 148 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(3) An amendment shall not be made to the rules of a commodities
exchange, in any form, unless the board of the commodities exchange, has
submitted a written application of the proposed amendment to the Commission
for approval.
(4) The Commission shall, within 20 business days after receipt of the
application on the proposed amendment, notify the commodities exchange of its
decision to approve or prohibit the implementation of the proposed amendment.
(5) Where, on the expiration of the period of 20 business days as stated in
subsection (4), the Commission fails to notify the commodities exchange of its
decision, the amendment shall be deemed approved.
(6) Nothing in this section shall preclude the Commission, after
consultation with the board of a commodities exchange, from directing the
commodities exchange to amend any rule of the commodities exchange, by
a notice in writing specifying the proposed amendment and the date the
amendment shall come into effect.
(7) Any notice under this section may be served personally, electronically
or by registered post.
Commodities 227. A commodities exchange shall maintain proper books of account and
exchange to records relating to its operations which shall be made available for inspection by
maintain the Commission.
proper
books of
account
Responsibilities 228.—(1) A commodities exchange shall —
of a
(a) conduct its business in a fair and transparent manner with regard to
commodities
the rights of license holders and their clients;
exchange
(b) ensure compliance with this Act by license holders and issuers of
commodities listed, quoted or admitted on its exchange and report any non-
compliance to the Commission;
(c) develop and enforce rules, listing requirements and such other
regulations pertaining to trading of commodities on its exchange;
(d) notify the Commission and other stakeholders in the case of an entity
as soon as it commences an insolvency proceeding or when such proceeding
is commenced against it, or when it has received a notification regarding
insolvency proceedings against a license holder;
(e) notify the Commission of any matter that may pose a systemic risk to
the financial markets as soon as it becomes aware of such matter;
(f ) not facilitate trade in any financial instrument or product except as
approved by the Commission;
(g) limit its role to the facilitation of trade between buyers and sellers, and
shall not provide custodial, depository, and clearing and settlement services,
except through a duly registered subsidiary or duly registered third party; and
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 149
(h) do such other things as are necessary for, incidental, or conducive to
the proper operation of an exchange.
(2) A commodities exchange shall perform regulatory functions including
regulatory oversight, inspection, examination, and maintenance of adequate
surveillance systems on the trading activities of its license holders and any other
function as may be prescribed by the Commission.
(3) A commodities exchange, shall at the end of every quarter file a detailed
report on its surveillance and enforcement activities with the Commission.
(4) The Commission may, in order to achieve the objectives of this Act,
assume responsibility of one or more of the regulatory or supervisory functions
referred to in subsection (1).
(5) Nothing in this section shall preclude the Commission from carrying
out inspections or conducting enquiries or audit of any license holder of a
commodities exchange.
229.—(1) The appointment of the chief executive and other principal Appointment
officers of a commodities exchange shall be subject to the prior written approval and removal
of the Commission. of chief
executive
(2) The Commission may, in writing, direct a commodities exchange to and principal
remove the chief executive or an officer performing the functions of a chief officers of a
executive and where the commodities exchange fails to comply with the directive commodities
exchange
of the Commission, the Commission may suspend or remove such officer from
office in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(3) The Commission may suspend or remove the chief executive or a
principal officer of a commodities exchange, if it is satisfied that such officer
has contravened, failed, or refused to comply with the —
(a) provisions of this Act or rules and regulations made under it;
(b) rules of the commodities exchange; or
(c) directive of the Commission:
Provided that the chief executive or such other principal officer shall be given an
opportunity to be heard before the suspension or removal from office by the
Commission.
230. Where a commodities exchange reprimands, penalizes, suspends, Commodities
expels, or otherwise takes disciplinary action against a license holder, the exchange to
commodities exchange shall, within seven days of such action, notify the give notice
of
Commission in writing of the—
disciplinary
(a) name and other particulars of the license holder; and actions
(b) nature of, and reason for the action taken by the commodities exchange,
against the affected license holder.
A 150 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Review of 231. The Commission may review any disciplinary action taken by a
disciplinary commodities exchange against a license holder and may affirm or set aside such
actions taken decision, after granting fair hearing to the license holder and the commodities
by a
exchange.
commodities
exchange
Oversight 232. Nothing in this section shall preclude the Commission from taking
function on disciplinary action against a license holder, where a commodities exchange fails
commodities
to sanction a license holder:
exchanges
Provided that, before taking such action, the Commission shall give the license
holder and the commodities exchange an opportunity of being heard.
Power to 233.—(1) The Commission may, where appropriate, issue directives to a
issue commodities exchange with respect to—
directives to
(a) trading on the commodities exchange or pertaining to any commodities
a
commodities listed on the commodities exchange,
exchange (b) the manner in which a commodities exchange carries on its business
including the manner of reporting off-market transactions, or
(c) any other matter which the Commission considers necessary for the
effective administration of this Act,
and the commodities exchange shall comply with the directives.
(2) A commodities exchange which fails to comply with a directive given
under subsection (1) shall be liable to a penalty of not less than N10,000,000, in
the first instance and a further sum of not less than N500,000 for every day the
violation continues.
Prohibition 234.—(1) Where the Commission deems it necessary to protect persons
of trading in transacting in particular contracts in commodities on a commodities exchange,
particular it may prohibit or suspend trading in the commodities for a period not exceeding
contracts in
14 days, and give notice in writing of the prohibition or suspension to the
commodities
commodities exchange and the relevant depository, central counterparty, clearing
house and warehouse:
Provided that the Commission may by notice in writing, extend the suspension
for a further period not more than 30 days at a time.
(2) A commodities exchange which fails to comply with a notice given
under subsection (1) is liable to a penalty of not less than N1,000,000, in the first
instance and a further sum of N50,000 for every day the violation continues.
(3) The Commission may, in addition to the penalty prescribed under
subsection (2) —
(a) refuse to consider any application made to the Commission by the
commodities exchange;
(b) revoke the instrument of registration of the commodities exchange;
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 151
(c) petition the court for winding-up of the commodities exchange; or
(d) take any other action as it may deem fit.
235.—(1) The Commission may revoke any instrument of registration Revocation
granted if the body corporate ceases to operate as a commodity exchange, is of
being wound up, operating in a manner detrimental to public interest, or has registration
provided to the Commission any information that was false or misleading in a
material particular.
(2) A body corporate shall be deemed to have ceased to operate as a
commodity exchange if it has ceased to operate for more than 180 days unless
it has obtained the approval of the Commission to do so, or by virtue of any
directive issued by the Commission.
236.—(1) A person shall not, whether as principal or agent, carry on Registration
business of or hold himself out as — of
commodity
(a) a commodity broker;
broker
(b) a commodity broker’s representative;
(c) a commodity trading adviser;
(d) a commodity pool operator;
(e) a spot commodity broker;
(f ) spot commodity pool operator; or
(g) any other professional or entity as may be determined by the
Commission unless such person is registered by the Commission in accordance
with the provisions of this Act or rules and regulations made under it.
(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1), commits an offence and is
liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N10,000,000 or imprisonment for
a term of not less than three years or both.
237.—(1) Whenever the Commission has reason to believe that an Emergency
emergency exists, it may direct a commodity exchange or a clearing house to powers
take such action as it considers necessary to maintain or restore orderly trading.
(2) Where a commodity exchange or a clearing house fails to comply with
the directives of the Commission under subsection (1) within such time as is
specified by the Commission, the Commission may take any action it deems
necessary to restore orderly trading.
(3) In this section, “emergency” includes, in addition to threatened or
actual market manipulations, any act of government affecting a commodity or
any other major market disturbance which prevents the market from accurately
reflecting the forces of supply and demand for commodity or any other undesirable
situations or practices which in the opinion of the Commission constitutes an
emergency.
A 152 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(4) Without prejudice to subsection (1) where a commodity exchange or
a clearing house exercises its powers under its rules to take emergency action,
the Commission may modify such emergency action, including setting aside the
emergency action.
Prohibition 238.—(1) A person other than a clearing house, a commodities exchange,
of use of a commodity broker, a commodity trading adviser or commodity pool operator
certain titles
shall not—
(a) take or use the title or description “clearing house” “commodity
exchange” “commodity broker”, “spot commodity broker”, “commodity
trading adviser”, “commodity pool operator”, or “spot commodity pool
operator”; or
(b) take or use, or have attached to or exhibited at any place, any title or
description that resembles the titles specified in paragraph (a) or so closely
resembles such titles as to be calculated to deceive.
(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of this section is liable to a
penalty of not less than N10,000,000 and a further sum of N20,000 for every
day the violation continues.
Offences 239.—(1) A person shall not —
(a) create or cause to be created or do anything that is calculated to create
a false or misleading appearance of active trading in a commodity exchange,
or a false or misleading appearance with respect to the market for, or the
price of trading in, commodity contracts;
(b) execute, or hold himself out as having executed, an order for the
purchase or sale of a commodity contract on a commodity exchange without
having effected a purchase in good faith or sale of the commodity contract in
accordance with the business rules and practices of the commodity exchange;
(c) circulate, disseminate, authorise the circulation or dissemination of,
any statement or information to the effect that the price of trading in any
class of commodity contracts is, or is likely to rise or fall because of the
market operations of one or more persons knowing such information to be
about false trading;
(d) directly or indirectly —
(i) manipulate, or attempt to manipulate, the price of a commodity
contract that may be dealt in on a commodity exchange, or
(ii) corner, or attempt to corner, any commodity which is the subject
of any commodity contract;
(e) directly or indirectly, in connection with any transaction with any
other person involving trading in a commodity contract —
(i) employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud that other person,
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 153
(ii) engage in any act, practice or course of business which operates as
a fraud or deception, or is likely to operate as a fraud or deception, of that
other person, or
(iii) make any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a
material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light
of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; or
(f ) directly or indirectly, for the purposes of inducing or attempting to
induce another person to trade in a commodity contract or class of commodity
contracts, make or publish —
(i) any statement which is, at the time and in the light of the circumstances
in which it is made, false, misleading or deceptive with respect to any material
fact and which he knows, or has reasonable grounds for believing, is false,
misleading or deceptive, or
(ii) any statement which is, by reason of the omission of a material fact
rendered false, misleading or deceptive and which he knows, or has reasonable
grounds for believing, is rendered false, misleading or deceptive by reason of
the omission of that fact.
(2) A person who contravenes any provision of this section commits an
offence and is liable on conviction, in the case of —
(a) an individual, to a fine of not less than N5,000,000 or to imprisonment
for a term of not less than five years or both, or
(b) a body corporate, to a fine of not less than N50,000,000.
B — WAREHOUSE RECEIPTS
240.—(1) A person shall not operate a warehouse storing commodities Registration
linked to an exchange or issuing warehouse receipts tradable on an exchange of
without registration of the warehouse by the Commission. warehouses
(2) The Commission may, upon application in the prescribed form, register
a warehouse operator for the operation of a warehouse in accordance with the
provisions of this Act.
(3) The registration under subsection (2), shall be granted subject to the
Commission satisfying itself that the warehouse —
(a) is suitable for the proper storage of the particular commodities;
(b) operator meets the conditions for eligibility to operate a registered
warehouse of the kind applied for as may be prescribed in the rules and
regulations made under this Act; and
(c) operator agrees, as a condition to the granting of the registration, to
comply with and abide by the provisions of regulations made under this Act.
(4) A person, who operates a registrable warehouse without obtaining
registration as required under this Act, commits an offence and is liable on
A 154 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
conviction to a fine of not less than N3,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of
not less than five years or both.
(5) A person who continues to operate a warehouse after the suspension
or revocation of its instrument of registration, commits an offence and is liable
on conviction to a fine of N2,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of not less
than five years or both.
(6) The Commission may, in lieu of criminal prosecution under subsections
(4) and (5), impose a penalty of not less than N10,000,000 and a further sum of
N50,000 for every day the violation continues.
Revocation 241.—(1) The Commission may revoke or suspend the registration of a
and warehouse for any violation of the provisions of this Act after granting to the
suspension
warehouse operator the opportunity of being heard.
of
warehouse (2) Where the registration of a warehouse is revoked or suspended, the
registration warehouse operator shall take such steps as prescribed in the rules and regulations
made under this Act.
(3) The revocation or suspension of a registration under the provisions of
this Act or the rules and regulations made under it shall not affect the validity of
receipts issued by an issuer of warehouse receipts.
Insurance of 242. A warehouse operator shall insure its warehouse structures and
warehouse facilities, as well as the commodities stored in the warehouse as prescribed by
and the rules and regulations made under this Act.
commodities
Inspection 243.—(1) The Commission or its appointed agent may inspect any
of warehouse.
warehouse
by the (2) A person who obstructs a warehouse inspector or any other authorised
Commission person in the exercise of the powers conferred on him by this Act or who
neglects or refuses to produce to a warehouse inspector or any other authorised
person, any commodity, document, book of accounts or other records on
demand, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than
N500,000 or imprisonment for a term of not more than three months or both.
(3) The Commission may, in lieu of criminal prosecution in subsection
(2), impose a penalty of not less than N1,000,000 and a further sum of N5,000
for every day the violation continues.
Registration 244.—(1) A person shall not operate a collateral management company
of collateral without registration by the Commission, and a collateral management company
management
shall provide the services stipulated in the rules and regulations made under
company
this Act.
(2) The collateral management company shall make necessary arrangements
for provision of pledging against a warehouse receipt and the activities of eligible
pledgees.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 155
245.—(1) A warehouse receipt as defined in this Act shall only be issued Issuance of
by an entity duly registered by the Commission and in a manner prescribed by warehouse
the Commission. receipt
(2) A commodity received note may be issued by a warehouse operator or
any entity so authorised for a maximum period of two days or such period as
may be determined by the Commission, to a depositor of commodities until the
issuance of the warehouse receipt to the depositor.
(3) A person who violates the provisions of this section commits an offence
and is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N1,000,000 or imprisonment
for a term of six months or both.
(4) A person who issues a warehouse receipt in contravention of the
provisions of this section is liable, in lieu of criminal prosecution, to a penalty of
not less than N2,000,000 and a further sum of N5,000 for every day the violation
continues.
246.—(1) A warehouse receipt drawn and issued shall be first proof of Warehouse
the holder having proprietary rights in the commodities. receipt as
evidence of
(2) A person acquires proprietary rights in the commodities, in relation to
proprietary
a warehouse receipt, if he is entitled to the ownership of the commodities — rights
(a) in return for a binding commitment to extend credit or for extension of
an immediately available credit, whether or not drawn;
(b) as security for or in total or partial satisfaction of a pre-existing claim;
(c) by accepting delivery under a pre-existing contract for purchase; or
(d) in return for any consideration sufficient to support a pre-existing
contract.
247.—(1) A warehouse receipt shall be in the prescribed form and comply Form,
with standardisation rules, and have such content as prescribed in the rules and standardisation
regulations made by the Commission under this Act. and contents
of
(2) The issuer of a warehouse receipt shall be liable to the person who warehouse
suffers loss as a result of false or inaccurate information contained in a warehouse receipt
receipt, or for omission of any term required to be included in the warehouse
receipt under this Act.
248.—(1) Where a warehouse receipt is issued on commodities, it shall Trading in
be traded on a commodity exchange where such commodities are listed on the warehouse
exchange for trading. receipts
(2) For the purpose of settlement of a warehouse receipt, a commodity
exchange and its depository shall establish connectivity with the electronic
warehouse receipt system of the issuer.
249.—(1) A warehouse receipt issued to the bearer or to the order of a Negotiable
named person shall be transferable by endorsement and delivery. warehouse
receipts
A 156 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(2) Words capable of rendering any warehouse receipts non-negotiable
shall not be inserted into such warehouse receipts.
Obligation 250.—(1) Delivery of a commodity which is the subject of a warehouse
of a receipt shall be done in accordance with the rules and regulations made by the
warehouse Commission under this Act.
operator to
deliver (2) Except as provided under this Act or any rules and regulations made by
the Commission, an issuer of a warehouse receipt shall deliver stored commodities
upon demand by the holder of the warehouse receipt, if the holder —
(a) makes full payments for the warehouse operator’s charges for storage
and other services relating to the commodities either through the clearing
house if the stored commodities are traded on the exchange or directly through
a medium as may be approved by the Commission if the commodities are not
traded on the exchange, or does not make full payment and a lien is placed on
the commodities, after deducting the exact quantity of the commodities at
open market value as at that date, plus ancillary cost;
(b) signs relevant documents acknowledging the delivery of the
commodities; and
(c) satisfies the warehouse operator of the identity of the person taking
possession of commodities.
(3) Except as may be permitted by rules and regulations made by the
Commission, an issuer of a warehouse receipt shall not —
(a) issue warehouse receipts for commodities in respect of which the
issuer, its directors or staff have interest; or
(b) trade in commodities which it is registered to store.
(4) Where an issuer of a warehouse receipt is permitted by regulation to
trade in its own commodities, and in fulfilling any additional condition for grant
of the registration, it shall ensure that —
(a) there is a clear separation of the commodities owned by it from other
commodities it is authorised to store;
(b) there are clear and transparent records available to show the
demarcation of the commodities; and
(c) it issues receipt in respect of its commodities indicating that the
commodities belong to it.
Obligation to 251.—(1) A warehouse operator shall take all necessary precautions to
deliver ensure that the delivery of commodities is made to a person who has lawfully
commodities obtained a warehouse receipt.
to persons
with valid (2) A warehouse operator’s title or right to the possession of commodities
titles or right shall only be derived —
(a) directly or indirectly from a transfer made by a depositor at the time of
or subsequent to deposit of commodities; or
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 157
(b) by a warehouse operator’s lien on the commodities.
(3) Unless a warehouse operator’s title or right to possession of the
commodities is obtained in accordance with the provisions of subsection (2),
the warehouse operator shall incur liability for refusing to deliver the commodities
according to the terms indicated on the warehouse receipt.
252.—(1) Subject to rule and regulations made by the Commission, a Warehouse
warehouse operator’s lien on commodities deposited or the proceeds of such operator’s
commodities shall derive from all — right to lien
(a) lawful charges for storage and preservation of commodities;
(b) lawful claims for money advanced, interest, insurance, transportation,
labour, weighing, and other charges and expenses in relation to such
commodities;
(c) reasonable charges and expenses incurred for notice and advertisements
of sale; and
(d) sale of the commodities where there is default in satisfying the
warehouse operator’s lien.
(2) The term ‘warehouse operator’s lien’ used in subsection (1) is the
right of a warehouse operator to recoup fees and charges for services rendered
or supplied or repayment of sums advanced in accordance with the provisions
of subsection (1) and the term “right of lien” shall be construed accordingly.
253.—(1) A warehouse operator’s lien may be enforced subject to the Enforcement
provisions of this Act and rules and regulations made under it against — of lien
(a) all commodities, whenever deposited, belonging to the person who is
liable as debtor for the claims in regard to which the lien is asserted; and
(b) the established interest of the depositor in any other commodities
deposited with the warehouse operator, whether or not deposited by the debtor
himself, provided that such exercise of lien shall only be to the extent and
value of the established debtors interest in these other commodities.
(2) A warehouse operator’s lien may be satisfied by —
(a) the sale of a portion of the deposited commodities and any costs
associated with the sale at the prevailing market price;
(b) other remedies allowed by law for the enforcement of a lien against
personal property; or
(c) any other action for recovery of the warehouse operator’s claim.
(3) A warehouse operator who has a valid lien against the person demanding
the commodities may refuse to deliver the commodities until the lien is satisfied.
(4) Other remedies available under the law that a creditor may have against
a debtor for the collection from a depositor of all charges and advances which
A 158 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
the depositor has expressly or impliedly contracted with a creditor, shall also be
available to a warehouse operator notwithstanding the warehouse operator’s lien
on the commodities.
Loss of right 254. A warehouse operator shall lose the right to the lien on the commodities
of lien by —
(a) surrendering possession of the commodities; or
(b) refusing to deliver the commodities upon demand made in accordance
with the provisions of this Act.
Cancellation 255.—(1) Except as otherwise provided in this Act or rules and regulations
of made under it, where a warehouse operator delivers commodities for which a
warehouse warehouse receipt had been issued, the issuer shall cancel the receipt.
receipt after
the delivery (2) Where an issuer of a warehouse receipt, fails to cancel the receipt as
of provided for under subsection (1), and a third party purchaser without notice
commodities acquires title to the receipt, the issuer of the warehouse receipt shall remain
liable for the market value of the commodities.
(3) Where an issuer of a warehouse receipt, fraudulently fails to cancel a
receipt upon which delivery has been made, the issuer commits an offence and
is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N20,000,000, and in addition pay
the prevailing market value of the commodities.
Delivery of 256.—(1) Except as otherwise provided in this Act, where a warehouse
commodities operator delivers part of the commodities for which a warehouse receipt had
in parts been issued, the issuer of the warehouse receipt shall cancel the receipt and
issue a new receipt for the remaining commodities.
(2) An issuer of a warehouse receipt who fails to comply with the
provisions of subsection (1), commits an offence and is liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term of one year and in addition liable to pay the market
value of the commodities not delivered.
(3) Where a receipt is not cancelled as provided under subsection (1) and
the purchaser acquires title to the receipt before or after the delivery of any
portion of the commodities, the issuer of the warehouse receipt shall remain
liable to the purchaser.
Altered 257.—(1) A person shall not alter a warehouse receipt in a manner that
warehouse conveys a false information or misrepresentation of information contained in the
receipts receipt.
(2) An alteration to a warehouse receipt shall be regarded as immaterial, if
the alteration does not affect the prior proprietary rights of the holder or convey
a false information or misrepresentation.
(3) Any person who acquired an interest or relied on an altered warehouse
receipt shall be entitled to the remedies provided in Section 258 of this Act.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 159
(4) Any person who violates the provisions of subsection (1) commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of N5,000,000 or imprisonment for
a term of not less than two years or both.
(5) The Commission may, in lieu of criminal prosecution for a violation of
subsection (1), impose a penalty of not less than N10,000,000.
258.—(1) A purchaser of an altered warehouse receipt for value without Rights of
notice of the alteration shall acquire the same proprietary rights against the issuer purchasers
which the purchaser would have acquired if the receipt had not been altered at of altered
receipts
the time of purchase.
(2) A purchaser of a warehouse receipt shall be regarded to have had
notice of alteration, if before the purchase of the warehouse receipt, the purchaser
or his agent took part or influenced the alteration of the warehouse receipt and
shall be liable to be proceeded against under this Act in the same way and manner
as the issuer of the warehouse receipt.
(3) A purchaser of an altered warehouse receipt for value without notice
of the alteration shall be entitled to proceed against the issuer to claim damages
for the loss suffered as a result of the alteration.
259.—(1) A warehouse receipt holder shall acquire after negotiation as Rights
provided under this Act — derived from
negotiation
(a) title to the warehouse receipt;
(b) title to the commodities, including, to the extent that such activities are
authorised by the depositor and noted on the warehouse receipt, the packed,
processed, substituted or otherwise transformed commodities of the depositor;
(c) all rights accruing under the law, including rights to commodities
delivered to the warehouse operator after the warehouse receipt was issued;
(d) the obligation of the warehouse operator to hold or deliver the
commodities according to the terms of the warehouse receipt and any related
storage agreement fee; and
(e) liability to pay outstanding storage charges, advances and other fees
endorsed on the warehouse receipt.
(2) Title and rights acquired under subsection (1) are not invalidated by
the surrender of the commodities by the warehouse operator.
(3) Where a warehouse receipt is negotiable, no person shall have a lien by
virtue of any judicial process to commodities in the possession of a warehouse
operator except where —
(a) a warehouse receipt is originally issued upon delivery of the commodities
by a person who had no power to deposit the commodities; or
(b) the receipt is first surrendered to the warehouse operator or its
A 160 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
negotiation is ordered by the Tribunal or a court, and the warehouse operator
shall not be compelled to deliver the commodities in accordance with any
judicial process until the receipt is surrendered to the warehouse operator or
made a subject of litigation before the Tribunal or a court.
(4) A person who purchases a warehouse receipt for value without notice
of the judicial or arbitral process takes the commodities free of the lien imposed
by the judicial or arbitral process without removing the liability of the transferor
to any claim against him in that respect.
Liability for 260.—(1) A warehouse operator shall not deliver the commodities if, prior
wrongful to delivery, he receives information or otherwise becomes aware that a person
delivery of
to whom delivery is about to be made is not legally entitled to the delivery.
commodities
(2) A warehouse operator who proceeds to deliver the commodities in its
custody in violation of subsection (1), shall be liable to all persons having
proprietary rights to or in the possession of the commodities in the exact market
value of the commodities wrongfully delivered.
Liability for 261. Except as otherwise provided in this Act or rules and regulation made
wrongful under it, an issuer of a warehouse receipt shall be liable to the holder of a
description
warehouse receipt for the commodities named in the receipt not being in existence,
of
or by the commodities delivered not corresponding with the description in the
commodities
warehouse receipt subject only to changes that may occur in the commodities,
over time when stored in accordance with the conditions specified in this Act or
by the rules and regulations made under it.
Liability for 262. Except for unavoidable damages, reasonable wear and tear, or
loss or deterioration associated with the nature and type of the commodities and mode
injury to of storage, and other exemptions provided under this Act and the rules and
commodities
regulations made under it, a warehouse operator is liable in damages for loss of,
or injury to the commodities caused by the warehouse operator’s failure to
exercise due and reasonable care as circumstances may demand.
Liability for 263. An issuer of a warehouse receipt, its employee, agent, or servant
issuance of who issues or aids in the issuance of a receipt knowing that the commodities for
receipts for which such receipt is issued have not been received by the warehouse operator,
commodities
or are not under his direct control at the time of issuing such receipt, commits
not received
an offence and is liable on conviction for —
(a) an individual, to a fine of not less than N2,000,000 or imprisonment
for a term not more than two years or both; or
(b) a corporate body, to a fine of N10, 000,000.
Liability for 264. An issuer of a warehouse receipt, its employee, agent or servant who
false knowingly issues or aids in the fraudulent issuance of a receipt for commodities
statement in knowing that the receipt contains a false statement, commits an offence and is
a warehouse
liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N10,000,000 or imprisonment for
receipt
a term not more than three years or both.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 161
265. An issuer of a warehouse receipt, its employee, agent, or servant, who Liability for
knowingly issues or aids in the issuance of a duplicate or additional negotiable issuance of
receipt for the same commodities or any part which is outstanding and not cancelled, unmarked
duplicate
without plainly placing on the face of the warehouse receipt the word ‘duplicate’
receipts
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N10,000,000
or imprisonment for a term not more than three years or both.
266. A person who deposits with a warehouse operator registered under Liability for
this Act, stolen commodities, or commodities to which he has no title, or upon depositing
which there is an undisclosed lien or mortgage, commits an offence and is liable commodities
on conviction to a fine of not less than N5,000,000 or imprisonment for a term with
defective
not more than two years or both.
title
267. Terms used in this Part shall be construed as defined in section 357 Terms used
of this Act. in this Part
PART XVI — ISSUANCE OF SECURITIES
A — FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AGENCIES, STATES, LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
AND THEIR RESPECTIVE AGENCIES
268. This Part applies to — Bodies to
which this
(a) Federal Government agencies;
Part applies
(b) State Governments and their agencies;
(c) the Federal Capital Territory and its agencies;
(d) Local Governments;
(e) any company which is wholly owned by the Federal, State, Federal
Capital Territory or Local Governments; and
(f ) any borrowing by a company which is guaranteed or sponsored by
the Federal, State, Federal Capital Territory or Local Governments.
269.—(1) Subject to subsections (2), (3) and (4), a body to which this Issue of
Part applies may issue to the public, debt securities in the form of — registered
bonds,
(a) bonds;
promissory
(b) promissory notes; notes,
(c) non-interest financial instruments; or general
(d) such other instruments as may be approved by the Commission. obligation
debt
(2) Debt securities issued under subsection (1)(a), may be — securities
and revenue
(a) general obligation debt securities issued on the full faith and credit of
or project
the issuing body charged upon and payable out of the revenue fund or other
tied debt
statutory fund of such body; or
securities
(b) project-tied debt securities issued for specific projects charged upon (project
and payable out of — bonds)
(i) the revenue from the project,
(ii) a specific asset or assets, or
A 162 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(iii) a guarantee from the relevant Federal, State or Local government
or other acceptable third party.
(3) A body to which this Part applies shall be entitled to issue general
obligation debt securities only where —
(a) the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of the State or Federal Capital
Territory is not less than 60% of its consolidated revenues for three years;
(b) its total annual debt service obligations, including the debt service
obligation arising from the proposed issuance, is not at any time exceeding
40% of the actual revenue that accrued to its consolidated revenue fund or
other statutory fund in the 12 months period immediately preceding the
proposed new issuance; or
(c) it complies with such other debt sustainability ratio as may be specified
by the Commission or other relevant authority which takes account of the
total current and future debt service obligations, other contractual obligations,
and the variability of the future revenue of the issuing body.
(4) A body to which this Part applies shall be entitled to issue project-tied
debt securities only where —
(a) the assets of, and revenues from the project to which the project-tied
debt securities relate are ring-fenced;
(b) the projects, instruments or assets to be funded or acquired as the
case may be from the proceeds of the issue has the minimum investment
grade rating from at least two rating agencies recognised by the Commission
or such other rating as the Commission may specify;
(c) the project-tied debt securities are guaranteed by —
(i) a body to which this Part applies other than the issuer, and the
provisions as specified in subsection (3) shall apply to the guarantor, or
(ii) a bank, insurance company or other third party acceptable to the
Commission:
Provided that such a guarantor shall have the minimum investment grade rating
and satisfy any other conditions as may be specified by the Commission; and
(d) it meets such other requirements as may be determined by the
Commission.
(5) Bonds or other securities issued under this Part for the purpose of
raising any specified sum of money shall be deemed to be separate,
notwithstanding that the sum of money so raised is part of a sum of money
authorised by any other law to be raised.
Cap. T22, (6) Securities created or issued under this Part shall be securities to which
LFN 2004 the Trustee Investments Act applies.
(7) The proceeds of securities issued under this Part shall be utilised
solely for the purpose for which the securities were issued.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 163
270.—(1) Subject to the consent of its approving authority, a body to Appointment
which this Part applies shall appoint any financial institution registered with the of
Commission as custodian, for the purpose of warehousing proceeds of the bond custodians
for the duration of the execution of projects or the purpose of issue as stated in
the prospectus of such bond.
(2) For the purpose of giving effect to this section, the custodian appointed
under subsection (1) shall have the power to —
(a) receive and hold money accruing from the issue of the bonds;
(b) discharge the duties of a custodian as stipulated in this Act and any
rules and regulations made under it;
(c) make payments in relation to the purpose of issue of the bond in
accordance with such conditions as may be specified by the Commission;
and
(d) refuse the execution of any payment that may be in contravention of
the content of the trust deed of a bond.
271.—(1) A body to which this Part applies shall not issue securities to the Restriction
public except in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules and on raising of
regulations made under it. funds from
the capital
(2) An application to issue securities under this Part shall be in such form market
as the Commission may direct.
(3) An application made under this section shall be accompanied by such
documents as may be prescribed by the Commission and include —
(a) in the case of a State Government and the Federal Capital Territory —
(i) a copy of the law authorising the issue of the securities specifying,
in the case of general obligation debt securities, that a sinking fund to be
fully funded from the revenue fund account of the issuer shall be established
and that funding required for the sinking fund shall constitute a charge on
the revenue fund of the issuer,
(ii) a copy of a rating report by a rating agency registered or recognised
by the Commission,
(iii) in the case of general obligation debt securities, an irrevocable
letter of authority issued by the Accountant-General of the State or any
person performing that function in the Federal Capital Territory, to the
Accountant-General of the Federation, to deduct at source from the
statutory allocation due to the issuer, and
(iv) an irrevocable letter of guarantee issued by the bank or acceptable
third-party with at least the minimum investment grade rating, committing
to provide such funds as may be required to meet the principal and interest
obligations in favour of the trustees where a general obligation bond is not
fully or partly backed by a charge on the internally generated revenue of the
issuer or an irrevocable letter of authority as specified in subparagraph (iii);
A 164 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(b) in the case of a local government —
(i) a copy of the law of the State to which it belongs authorising the
issue of the bond by the local government and specifying that a sinking
fund to be fully funded from funds accruing to the local government from
the Federation Account shall be established and that funding required for
the sinking fund shall constitute a charge on the revenue fund of the State,
(ii) a copy of a rating report by a rating agency registered or recognised
by the Commission,
(iii) an irrevocable letter of authority issued by the Accountant-General
of the State on behalf of the local government, guaranteeing the deduction
at source from the statutory allocation due to the local government, as the
first line charge to meet its payment obligations, and
(iv) an irrevocable letter of guarantee issued by the bank or acceptable
third-party with at least the minimum investment grade rating, committing
to provide such funds as may be required to meet the principal and interest
obligations in favour of the trustees where a general obligation bond is not
fully or partly backed by a charge on the internally-generated revenue of the
issuer or an irrevocable letter of authority as specified in subparagraph (iii);
(c) in the case of a Federal or State Government agency —
(i) a copy of the law or instrument establishing and authorising the
agency to issue the securities,
(ii) an irrevocable letter of guarantee of repayment of the obligation,
issued by the Federal or State Government that owns the agency or company
provided that the provisions of this section would apply in the case of a
State Government, and
(iii) where applicable, an irrevocable letter of guarantee of repayment of
the obligation, issued by an acceptable third-party committing to be liable for
the repayment of the principal and interest in the event of default; and
(d) in the case of project-tied debt securities —
(i) an irrevocable letter of consent by the banker to the project on the
funding of the debt service reserve account or sinking fund to be established
to meet maturing principal and interest obligations from the accruing project
cash flows,
(ii) a copy of a rating report by a rating agency registered or recognised
by the Commission, and
(iii) an irrevocable letter of guarantee of repayment of the loan issued
by an acceptable third-party committing to be liable for the repayment of
the principal and interest in the event of default.
(4) The Commission may, in addition to conditions prescribed in subsection
(3), prescribe conditions or issue directives relating to any borrowing by State
Governments and their agencies concerning any of the following matters —
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 165
(a) the funding of the sinking fund;
(b) underwriting;
(c) federal irrevocable standing payment order to the trustees of the sinking
fund; and
(d) completion of the project, as would guarantee the repayment to the
subscribers.
(5) The sinking fund shall be managed by a corporate trustee registered
by the Commission.
(6) The Commission may impose any penalty on a defaulting body and
this may include —
(a) reprimand;
(b) publication in the national dailies; and
(c) blacklisting or foreclosure from raising further facility in the capital
market.
(7) The trustee shall have the power to take legal action against the defaulting
body failing which bondholders, holding at least 10% of the value of the bond
shall have the right to call a meeting to pass a resolution compelling the trustee to
take legal action.
(8) A bondholder who feels dissatisfied may personally initiate legal action
to enforce his rights under the trust deed irrespective of the legal duty of the
trustee to take such legal action.
(9) Where the body raising funds is the Federal Government of Nigeria,
the requirements for approval of primary issues shall not apply, provided that
where the securities are to be traded on a securities exchange, they shall be
subject to the regulatory requirements relating to secondary market transactions.
(10) Any amount deducted under the provisions of this section shall be
credited into the sinking fund established under section 289 of this Act for the
purpose of redeeming the outstanding obligation.
(11) A copy of any irrevocable letter of authority issued under the provisions
of this section shall be lodged with the trustees appointed under section 283 of
this Act.
272. The principal money and interest represented or secured by any Loans to be
bond or securities issued under this Act shall be charged on and payable out charged
upon
of the general revenue and assets of the body concerned and of the assets of
revenue
the appropriate authority or project which is the beneficiary of the proceeds
of the issue.
A 166 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Bodies to 273.—(1) The particulars of funds raised under this Act shall be published
publish in the Federal Government Gazette or any other official document by the body
details of
raising the funds and shall include —
funds in the
(a) the beneficiary;
Federal
Government (b) the sum of money to be raised;
Gazette or (c) the mode or modes of raising;
other official (d) the rate of interest payable;
document
(e) the dates in each year on which the half-yearly or quarterly interest on
the funds shall be payable;
(f ) the time at which a half-yearly or quarterly appropriation out of the
general reserve and assets of the body or project of the body shall be made as
a contribution;
(g) the date of redemption of the bond or securities to be issued for the
purpose of raising the funds; and
(h) any other information relating to the funds considered necessary by
the Commission.
(2) The date of redemption of any bond or securities shall not be later than
25 years from the date of the issuance provided that the Commission may on
application grant such other longer period as it deems necessary.
(3) Where it is deemed expedient by a body to reserve an option to redeem
any bond or securities at any date earlier than the date of redemption specified
for such bond or securities under subsection (1) the body shall specify the
terms and conditions upon which the bond or securities may be redeemed at
such earlier date.
Register of 274.—(1) A body shall keep a register of all information of transactions in
securities securities and other information as required by this Act.
and
(2) A body shall for the purpose of carrying out its obligations under
appointment
of Registrar subsection (1) appoint any securities transfer agent registered with the
Commission as Registrar and the appointment shall be subject to such terms and
conditions as may be deemed fit by the body concerned.
(3) A register kept under this section shall be kept in such place as may be
approved on behalf of the body and shall include the —
(a) names and addresses of the holders for the time being of the securities
concerned and the persons deriving title from them;
(b) amount of securities held by every holder; and
(c) date on which the name of every holder is entered in respect of the
securities held in his name.
(4) The Registrar may be required to submit his books of account in
connection with his functions under this Part for an independent audit.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 167
275. An issuer shall appoint any issuing house registered by the Appointment
Commission, for the purpose of undertaking the issuance of securities under of issuing
this Part. house
276.—(1) Securities shall be allotted in dematerialised form and shall be Dematerialised
electronically registered, if applicable, on the account of the holder of the securities debt security
with any recognised depository, clearing or settlement platform.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), every holder of
securities issued shall be entitled to receive from the securities transfer agent an
electronic proof of ownership covering the amount of his holding.
277. The entries in a bond register shall be presumed to be a correct Entries in a
representation of the facts, matters, particulars and transactions to which those bond register
entries relate.
278.—(1) Every promissory note shall be signed by the issuer and shall, Promissory
when issued, bind the relevant body to pay the principal sum mentioned in that notes
note and the interest on it in accordance with the provisions of this Part at the
rate and on the dates specified under section 269 of this Act or under an option
to redeem the note reserved in the directives.
(2) Promissory notes shall be issued in such denominations as the issuer
may, with the approval of the approving authority of the body, direct.
279. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Bills of Exchange Act to the Manner and
contrary — effect of
endorsement
(a) an endorsement of a promissory note shall not be valid unless made by
the signature of the holder written on the back of the note in a space provided
for that purpose; and
(b) a person shall not, by reason only of his having endorsed a promissory
note, be liable to pay any money due either as principal or as interest on the
promissory note.
280.—(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other Rights of
law, or enactment — survivorship
(a) when a promissory note is payable to two or more persons jointly
and any or all die, the note shall be payable to a survivor of the deceased
person; and
(b) where a promissory note is payable to two or more persons severally,
and any or all die, the note shall be payable to a survivor of the deceased
person or to the representative of the deceased or to any of them.
(2) Nothing contained in this section shall affect any claim which any
representative of a deceased person may have against a survivor under or in
respect of any promissory note to which subsection (1) applies.
A 168 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Bonds 281.—(1) Every bond shall be signed by the issuer and when issued, bind
the issuer to pay the principal sum and the interest on that sum in accordance
with the provisions of this Act at the rate and on the dates specified in the trust
deed.
(2) Bonds shall be issued in such denominations as the issuer may determine.
Appropriation 282.—(1) Where any interest is payable in respect of securities, the issuer
and payment shall appropriate a sum sufficient to meet all interest payable on the date
of interest
prescribed.
(2) The interest due on securities shall be payable on the dates specified in
the issuing documents or trust deed.
(3) Save as otherwise provided in the issuing documents, where any
interest has become payable on any date, interest on that amount shall, after that
date, be paid or payable by a body or any other person responsible for the
default in payment to any person.
Appointment 283.—(1) The issuer may appoint a trustee for the purpose of acting on
of trustees behalf of bond holders of debt securities in registered form with regard to every
debt security issued under this Act provided that a trustee appointed under this
subsection shall not have any fiduciary relationship with the issuer.
(2) A draft copy of any trust deed made under this Part shall be sent to the
Commission for prior approval.
Powers of 284. The trustees appointed under this Part shall have all the powers
trustees conferred upon trustees by the trust deed under which they are appointed, the
Cap. T22, Trustee Investments Act and any other relevant law for the time being in effect.
LFN 2004
Trustee as 285. A trustee shall not underwrite an offer unless it has been registered
underwriter with the Commission as an underwriter:
Provided that the trustee shall not underwrite a transaction for which he is a
trustee.
Power to 286. The power to appoint new trustees under this Part shall be vested in
appoint new the issuer, and a trustee shall not be appointed without a prior approved resolution
trustees passed by a majority of bondholders present at a meeting duly called for that
purpose.
287. Except otherwise directed by a resolution passed by a majority of
Waiver by
trustees bond holders at a meeting duly convened for such purpose, the trustees may, in
the interest of the bond holders, waive a breach of any covenant or provision of
this Part by a body or an authority acting in that behalf:
Provided that such a waiver shall not affect the rights of the trustees in respect
of any subsequent breach.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 169
288. After the date specified in the particulars published under section 273 Appropriation
of this Act as the date from which contributions to the sinking fund for debt of revenue
for sinking
securities shall commence, and with the approval of the appropriate authority, at
fund
the end of each quarter or half-year with the interest payment dates specified in
the particulars, the body shall appropriate out of its general revenue and assets,
of the project, or such other verifiable source of revenue of the appropriate
authority, a sum determined as the contribution to the sinking fund established
for the purpose of redeeming the debt securities.
289. A separate sinking fund shall be established for each issuance of debt Separate
securities under this Part. sinking fund
290.—(1) All money appropriated under section 288 of this Act as Investment
contributions to the sinking fund shall be paid to the trustees appointed under of sinking
section 283 of this Act and may be invested in such securities as are specified in fund
the Trustee Investments Act. Cap. T22,
LFN 2004
(2) The trustees may, with the approval of the appropriate authority vary
any investment made under subsection (1) or may realise and re-invest any
money invested under that subsection.
(3) The dividends, interest, bonus and other profits of any investment of
any part of any sinking fund shall be invested by the trustees so as to form a part
of that sinking fund in like manner as money appropriated under section 288 of
this Act as contributions to that sinking fund.
291.—(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Part, Cessation of
if at any time the trustees are satisfied that the sinking fund of any debt securities contribution
issued under the provisions of this Part is sufficient with further accumulations to sinking
fund
of interest, but without further payments of contributions, to enable the debt
securities to be redeemed at the time fixed for its redemption, they shall inform
the body accordingly, and the issuer shall be authorised in such event to suspend
further payments of half-yearly or quarterly contributions to that sinking fund.
(2) The contributions to that sinking fund shall be recommenced if the
trustees at any time inform the appropriate authority that they are no longer
satisfied that the sinking fund without further accumulations of interest is sufficient
for the redemption of the debt securities.
292. There shall be paid out of the sinking fund all expenses specifically Expenses to
incurred in, or incidental to, the investment and management of that fund and be paid out
the repayment of the debt securities for which the fund was established. of sinking
fund
293. In the event of the sinking fund established by an issuer under the Deficiency
provisions of this Part being found at the time fixed for the repayment of the in fund to be
debt securities to be insufficient for such redemption, the deficiency shall be charged
upon
made good out of the general revenue and assets of the body concerned or the
revenue
project or assets funded by the proceeds of the debt securities.
A 170 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Consolidation 294. Subject to conditions as the issuer may provide, the Registrar shall
and consolidate or sub-divide securities and issue to the applicant one or more new
subdivision
certificates as may be required on —
(a) the application of a person claiming to be entitled to any debt
securities;
(b) being satisfied of the genuineness of the claim of such applicant;
(c) surrender of the certificate relating to such debt securities or of
such securities receipted in the specified manner; and
(d) payment of the prescribed fee.
Indemnity 295. Where an application is made to the registrar under this Part for the
bond issuance of a duplicate certificate or for the exchange, renewal, consolidation or
sub-division of any certificate, the registrar may require the applicant to execute
a bond to indemnify the body concerned against the claims of persons claiming
under the original certificate or under the certificate so exchanged, renewed,
consolidated or subdivided in accordance with the guidelines issued by the
Commission.
Immediate 296. On payment by or on behalf of a body to the holder of a security of
discharge in the amount expressed in it on or after the date when it becomes due or on the
certain cases
consolidation or sub-division of a security under this Act, a body shall be
discharged in the same way to the same extent as if the security were a promissory
note payable to the bearer.
Limitation of 297. Except as otherwise provided in this Part, an action shall not lie
legal action against the issuer in respect of any securities —
(a) redeemed on or after the date on which payment of the principal
amount becomes due, after the lapse of six years from that date;
(b) for which a duplicate certificate is issued after the lapse of six years
from the date of the issue of such duplicate or from the date of the last
payment of interest on such securities, whichever date is later; or
(c) for which a renewed certificate is issued or consolidated or subdivided
under this Act, after the lapse of six years from the date of the issuance.
Summary 298. Subject to laws applicable to the administration of the estate of a
procedure in deceased person, the registrar may summarily determine an application by the
special cases beneficial owners of securities in its custody where the nominal or face value
does not in aggregate exceed N50,000.
Notice of 299.—(1) Except as otherwise provided in this Part, no notice of any trust
trust not in respect of any securities shall be receivable by the securities transfer agent or
receivable
a relevant body.
except as
provided (2) The securities transfer agent shall not be deemed to have received
notice of a trust by reason only of the fact that he has recognised an endorsement
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 171
on a security by an executor or an administrator as such, and shall not inquire
into the terms of any will by which such executor or administrator may be
bound.
300. A document or an instrument made or used under the provisions of Exemption
this Part shall be in such form as may be prescribed by the Commission and from stamp
duties
shall be exempted from stamp duty payable to the Federal or a State Government.
301. An issuer may delegate to the Minister, Commissioner or Chairman Delegation
or such other appropriate officer all or any of the powers conferred on it by the of power
approving authority subject to such restriction, conditions and qualifications,
consistent with the provisions of this Part and the rules and regulations as may
be prescribed by the Commission.
302.—(1) A person shall not be entitled to inspect, or to receive information Inspection
in relation to securities, except on payment of such fee and in such circumstances of register
and on such terms and conditions as may be approved by the Commission. and
documents
(2) Nothing in this section shall apply to the Auditor-General for the
Federation or a State, the Accountant-General of the Federation or a State or
such other appropriate officers of the Federal, State Government or any public
officer acting in his official capacity.
303. The Commission may make such rules and regulations generally for Power to
the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Part and the rules and make rules
regulations may include — and
regulations
(a) the manner in which payment of interest is to be made and under this
acknowledged in respect of securities; Part
(b) the circumstance in which promissory notes shall be renewed before
further payment of interest may be claimed;
(c) the manner of payment of interest to joint holders of securities;
(d) the circumstances in which alterations may be made in the registration
of securities;
(e) the payment of principal sums or interest and transfer of securities in
the case of persons under a legal disability;
(f ) the disposal of unclaimed interest;
(g) the fees to be paid in respect of anything to be issued or done under
the provisions of this Part;
(h) matters that shall at the minimum be provided for and covered in a
trust deed or other like instrument;
(i) debt sustainability guidelines and ratios that issuers of securities under
this Part shall comply with;
(j) factors to be considered by custodians in disbursing proceeds of
securities issued under this Part; and
(k) all matters required by this Part to be prescribed and all matters incidental
to or connected with the matters enumerated.
A 172 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Requirements 304. A body to which this Part applies in exercising the powers granted
of securities under this Part shall comply with the listing requirements of the relevant securities
exchanges
exchange.
Binding 305. Any amount raised or guaranteed by any of the bodies to which this
obligation on Part applies shall, until such amount is fully repaid, be a binding and continuing
successive
obligation on the Federal, State or Local Government, boards or supervising
governments
ministries of corporate entities to which this Act applies with regards to the
or bodies
repayment of all principal sums and interest payments due and outstanding under
the issue including other terms and conditions arising from it.
Application 306. Nothing in this Part shall be construed as derogating from the
of provisions of any other enactment which restricts the borrowing of money by
enactments
any body to which the provisions of this Part applies or requires the consent of
any authority to the raising of such money by the body.
Offences, 307.—(1) A person shall not divert or mismanage the proceeds of any
remedies and bond issued under this Part.
penalties
(2) Where an appropriate officer or any other officer of a body which has
issued debt securities under this Part is found guilty of having diverted or
mismanaged or contributed in the diversion or mismanagement of any bond
proceeds, the officer shall —
(a) restitute to the issuer the total amount diverted or mismanaged, and
pay a penalty amounting to 500% of the total amount diverted or mismanaged
to the Commission; and
(b) be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more than 15
years.
(3) The provisions of subsection (2) shall apply notwithstanding that the
relevant officer has ceased to hold office.
(4) Where a custodian appointed in accordance with the provisions of this
Part is found guilty of having diverted, mismanaged or contributed in the diversion
or mismanagement of any bond proceed —
(a) the custodian shall —
(i) restitute to the issuer the total amount diverted or mismanaged, and
(ii) pay a penalty amounting to 500% of the total amount diverted or
mismanaged to the Commission; and
(b) every director and staff of the custodian involved in the diversion or
mismanagement commits an offence and is liable on conviction to imprisonment
for a term not more than 15 years.
(5) Without prejudice to the provisions of section 271 (6) and subsections
(2) (3) and (4), where a person who is under an obligation to comply with,
observe or give effect to the provisions of this Part, or any rules made under this
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 173
Part, fails to do so, the Commission may take one or more of the following
actions —
(a) direct the person in breach to comply with, observe or give effect
to any such provision of this Part or the rules and regulations made under
this Act;
(b) where the person in breach of the provisions of this Part is an
appropriate officer of the issuer, the Commission shall require the person to
take such steps as it may direct to remedy or mitigate the effect of the breach,
and this provision shall apply notwithstanding that the appropriate officer has
ceased to hold office; or
(c) where the person in breach is the Registrar, trustee, issuing house,
custodian or other professional party to the issue under this Part, the
Commission may —
(i) impose a penalty of not less than N5,000,000 on each defaulting
party and N25,000 for every day the violation continues,
(ii) require the person in breach to take such steps as it may direct to
remedy the breach or mitigate the effect of such breach,
(iii) prohibit the defaulting party from participating in other capital
market transactions until the breach is remedied and the penalty paid, and
(iv) direct the securities exchange to prevent the defaulting party from
carrying out any services or transactions on the exchange.
(6) Where a person has failed to comply with a penalty imposed by the
Commission under this section, the Commission may sue for and recover the
penalty as a civil debt.
B — ISSUANCE OF DEBT SECURITIES BY BODY CORPORATE
AND SUPRANATIONAL BODIES
308.—(1) A company whether local or foreign, supranational body or Issuance of
other approved entity shall not issue debt securities to the public without the debt
prior review and approval of the Commission. securities
subject to
(2) The Commission may make rules and regulations for the purpose of prior review
giving effect to the provisions of subsection (1) which shall include — and approval
(a) the eligibility criteria for the issuance of debt securities;
(b) the mode of issue;
(c) the minimum rating requirements;
(d) the disclosure and reporting requirements;
(e) the fees to be paid in respect of anything to be issued or done under the
provisions of this Part;
(f ) matters that shall at the minimum be provided for and covered in a
trust deed or other like instrument; and
(g) matters required, prescribed, incidental or connected to this section.
A 174 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(3) An entity referred to in subsection (1) may not issue debt securities
where it is in default of payment of interest or repayment of principal in respect
of previous debt issuances for a period of more than one month.
Mismanagement 309. A person who diverts or mismanages the proceeds of any debt issuance
or diversion under this Part commits an offence and is liable on conviction to imprisonment
of proceeds
for a term not more than 15 years.
Administrative 310. The Commission may in lieu of criminal prosecution direct a
sanctions person who diverts or mismanages the proceeds of any debt issuance under
this Part to —
(a) restitute to the issuer the total amount diverted or mismanaged; and
(b) pay a penalty to the Commission amounting to 500% of the total
amount diverted or mismanaged.
Cessation of 311. The provisions of section 307 of this Act shall apply notwithstanding
office that the relevant officer has ceased to hold office.
The 312. Without prejudice to the provisions of section 303 of this Act, or any
Commission rules and regulations made under this Act, the Commission may take one or
may take more of the following actions —
action
(a) direct the person in breach to comply with, observe or give effect
to any such provision of this Part or rules and regulations made under this
Act; and
(b) where the person in breach of the provisions of this Part is an
appropriate officer of the issuer, the Commission shall require the person to
take such steps as it may direct to remedy or mitigate the effect of the breach.
Terms used 313. Terms used in this Part shall be construed as defined in section 357
in this Part of this Act.
PART XVII — ESTABLISHMENT, JURISDICTION, AUTHORITY AND PROCEDURE
OF THE INVESTMENTS AND SECURITIES TRIBUNAL
Establishment 314.—(1) There is established the Investments and Securities Tribunal (in
of the this Act referred to as “the Tribunal”).
Investments
(2) The Tribunal shall exercise the jurisdiction, powers and authority as
and
Securities conferred on it by this Act.
Tribunal
Composition 315. The Tribunal shall consist of 12 persons to be appointed as members
of the by the President on the recommendation of the Minister as follows —
Tribunal
(a) a Chairman who shall be a legal practitioner with at least 15 years post
call experience in capital market matters;
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 175
(b) five full-time members comprising —
(i) four legal practitioners with at least 10 years’ post-call experience in
capital market matters, and
(ii) one person who is not a legal practitioner with 10 years’ experience
in capital market matters; and
(c) six part-time members, two of whom shall be legal practitioners with
at least 10 years’ post-call experience in capital market matters, and four
other persons who are knowledgeable in capital market matters.
316.—(1) The Minister shall recommend to the President eligible candidates Functions
for appointment as Chairman and members of the Tribunal. of the
Minister
(2) The Minister shall have the power to recommend to the President any
disciplinary action against the Chairman or any member of the Tribunal including
the removal of the Chairman or a member of the Tribunal on any or all of the
grounds provided for in this Act.
317. In the absence of the Chairman, the most senior full-time member of Vacancy in
the Tribunal by virtue of date of appointment shall act in his stead pending the the office of
return of the Chairman or appointment of a new Chairman: the Tribunal
Provided that where all such members have the same date of appointment, the
date of Call to Bar shall be used.
318.—(1) The Tribunal shall have and exercise jurisdiction throughout Constitution
the Federation, and the Chairman shall, for administrative purposes, divide the of the
Tribunal
Federation into such number of divisions as may be deemed appropriate.
(2) For the purpose of exercising any jurisdiction conferred on it by this
Act, the Tribunal shall be duly constituted if it consists of at least three members:
Provided that the member presiding over any such panel of the Tribunal shall be
a legal practitioner.
319.—(1) The Chairman shall hold office for a term of five years renewable Term of
for another term of five years and no more. office
(2) Other members of the Tribunal shall hold office for a term of four
years renewable for another term of four years and no more.
320. A member of the Tribunal shall cease to hold office if he — Disqualification
of members
(a) becomes of unsound mind or owing to ill-health is incapable of carrying
of the
out his duties; Tribunal
(b) is adjudged bankrupt or he makes a compromise with his creditors;
(c) is convicted of a felony or any offence involving fraud or dishonesty
by a court of competent jurisdiction;
(d) is guilty of serious misconduct in relation to his duties; or
(e) is disqualified or suspended from practising his profession in any part
of Nigeria or outside Nigeria by the order of any competent authority made in
respect of him personally.
A 176 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Resignation 321.—(l) A member of the Tribunal may, by notice in writing under his
and removal hand addressed to the President through the Minister resign his office:
Provided that the member shall, unless he is permitted by the President to relinquish
his office continue to hold office until the expiry of three months from the date
of receipt of such notice or until a person duly appointed as his successor
assumes his office or until the expiry of his term of office, whichever is earlier.
(2) A member of the Tribunal may be removed from office by an order
made by the President on the recommendation of the Minister based on —
(a) any of the grounds referred to in section 320 of this Act and after he
has been given an opportunity of being heard in respect of the charge; or
(b) the ground of proven charge of misbehaviour or incapacity after due
inquiry has been made and the member concerned has been informed of the
charge against him and given an opportunity of being heard in respect of the
charge.
Salaries, 322.—(1) The salaries and allowances of the Chairman, full-time members
allowances and Chief Registrar of the Tribunal shall be equivalent to the remuneration of the
and other Chief Judge, Judges and Chief Registrar of the Federal High Court respectively.
conditions of
service of (2) Without prejudice to the provision of subsection (1), the Tribunal may
members of pay such allowances to the Chairman, members, and the Chief Registrar, as
the Tribunal exigencies of duties may require towards the performance of their functions.
Filling up of 323. Where, for reasons other than temporary absence, a vacancy occurs
vacancies in the office of a member of the Tribunal, the President shall, on the
recommendation of the Minister, appoint another person to fill the vacancy in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.
Chief 324.—(1) The Chief Registrar of the Tribunal shall be appointed by the
Registrar of Minister.
the Tribunal
(2) The Chief Registrar of the Tribunal shall —
(a) be a legal practitioner of at least 10 years’ post-call experience in
capital market matters; and
(b) discharge such duties in exercise of the powers and authority of the
Tribunal as may be assigned to him by the Tribunal, the rules of the Tribunal,
and the Chairman.
(3) The Chief Registrar, or any other officer of the Tribunal so authorised,
shall have the power to administer oaths and discharge other duties with respect
to any proceedings in the Tribunal as may be prescribed by the rules or any
order of the Chairman.
Other staff 325.—(1) The Tribunal shall employ the services of such staff as it may
of the deem necessary for the efficient performance of its functions under this Act.
Tribunal
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 177
(2) The remuneration, including allowances, and terms and conditions of
service of the staff of the Tribunal shall be as may be determined by the Tribunal.
(3) The employees of the Tribunal shall be entitled to pensions and other
retirement benefits.
(4) Nothing in this section shall prevent the appointment of a person to
any office, on terms which preclude the grant of pension and other retirement
benefits.
326.—(1) The Tribunal shall have exclusive jurisdiction to adjudicate on Jurisdiction
disputes arising from investments and securities transactions in Nigeria. of the
Tribunal
(2) Subject to the provisions of section 318(2), the Tribunal shall exercise
exclusive original jurisdiction, where —
(a) the complaint is against a direct action of the Commission;
(b) a matter had been referred to the Commission and the Commission
failed to act within 60 days; or
(c) the matter arose from a regulatory action taken by the Commission
under the provisions of this Act.
(3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), the Tribunal shall exercise
appellate jurisdiction on matters —
(a) relating to disputes between —
(i) the Commission and any person in respect of any capital market
matter,
(ii) capital market operators and securities exchanges or financial
market infrastructure,
(iii) capital market operators inter se,
(iv) capital market operators and their clients,
(v) public companies and the Commission or the exchanges or investors,
(vi) an investor and an exchange or financial market infrastructure,
(vii) capital market operators and self-regulatory organisations,
(ix) an investor and the Commission, or
(x) an issuer of securities and the Commission;
(b) arising from the administration, management and operation of collective
investment schemes; or
(c) relating to the review, approval and regulation of mergers, takeovers
and restructuring of public companies.
(4) The Tribunal shall exercise jurisdiction on any other matter as may be
prescribed by an Act of the National Assembly.
(5) In the exercise of its jurisdiction under this Act, the Tribunal shall have
the power to interpret this Act, any other enactment, rules or regulations as may
be applicable.
A 178 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Fund of the 327.—(1) The Tribunal shall establish and maintain a Fund, which shall
Tribunal be applied towards the performance of its functions under this Act.
(2) There shall be paid and credited to the Fund established under
subsection (1) —
(a) annual subventions from the Federal Government with respect to
recurrent and capital expenditures;
(b) such other sums of money as may be provided by the Federal
Government; and
(c) such other money as may accrue to the Tribunal from the Nigerian
capital market.
Accounts 328.—(1) The Tribunal shall keep proper accounts of its receipts,
and audit payments, assets and liabilities and shall submit the accounts annually for auditing
by a qualified auditor appointed from a list of auditors and in accordance with
the guidelines supplied by the Auditor-General for the Federation.
(2) The Tribunal shall cause to be prepared, not later than 30 September in
each year, an estimate of its income and expenditure during the succeeding year
and when prepared, be submitted to the Minister and the National Assembly.
(3) The Tribunal shall prepare and submit to the Minister, a report in such
form as the Minister may direct on the activities of the Tribunal during the
immediate preceding year and shall include in the report, a copy of the audited
accounts of the Tribunal for that year and the auditors’ report on it.
Power to 329. The Tribunal may accept any grant of money or contributions on
accept gifts such terms and conditions, if any, as may be specified by the person or
organisation making such grant or contribution provided that the terms and
conditions are consistent with the functions and objectives of the Tribunal.
Application 330. The Tribunal may apply the proceeds of the Fund established in
of the fund section 327 of this Act to —
of the
(a) meet the cost of administration of the Tribunal;
Tribunal
(b) reimburse members of the Tribunal and staff or any committee of the
Tribunal for expenses authorised;
(c) pay the salaries, remuneration or allowances, pensions and gratuities
as applicable to the members and staff of the Tribunal;
(d) finance staff promotion, training, internships, scholarships, research
and similar activities;
(e) maintain any property acquired by or vested in the Tribunal;
(f ) meet any capital expenditure approved by the Tribunal; and
(g) perform all or any of the functions of the Tribunal under this Act or
any matter connected with those functions.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 179
331.—(1) A person aggrieved by any action or decision of the Commission Actions
under this Act, may institute an action in the Tribunal or appeal against such against and
decision within the period stipulated under this Act. appeals from
decisions of
(2) An action or appeal shall not be commenced at the Tribunal or in any the
other court in respect of anything covered under this Act unless the aggrieved Commission
party has given to the Commission at least 14 days’ written notice of its intention
to commence the action, and the notice shall state the cause of action, the name
and address of the aggrieved party and the relief which he claims.
(3) An appeal under this Part shall be filed within a period of 30 days from
the date on which a copy of the order which is being appealed against is made,
or deemed to have been made by the Commission and it shall be in such form
and accompanied by such fees as may be prescribed:
Provided that the Tribunal may entertain an appeal after the expiry of the period
of 30 days if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for the delay.
(4) On receipt of an appeal under subsection (3), the Tribunal may, after
giving the parties an opportunity of being heard, make such orders as it deems
fit, confirming, modifying or setting aside the order appealed against.
(5) The Tribunal, shall in the exercise of its powers under this Act, conduct
its proceedings in such manner as to avoid undue delays and shall dispose of any
matter before it finally within three months from the date of the commencement
of the hearing of the substantive action:
Provided that no judgment shall be rendered void by virtue of a delay in delivering
same except where it is established that the delay occasioned a miscarriage of
justice.
332.—(1) The Tribunal may make rules regulating its procedures. Powers and
procedures
(2) The Tribunal shall have, for the purposes of performing its functions
of the
under this Act, power to —
Tribunal
(a) summon and enforce the attendance of any person and examine him
on oath;
(b) require the discovery and production of documents;
(c) receive evidence on affidavits;
(d) call for the examination of witness or documents;
(e) review its decisions;
(f ) dismiss an application for default;
(g) decide matters ex-parte;
(h) enforce its judgment;
(i) commit any person for contempt;
(j) set aside or vary any of its orders; and
(k) do anything which in the opinion of the Tribunal is incidental or ancillary
to its functions under this Act.
A 180 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(3) Any proceeding before the Tribunal shall be a judicial proceeding and
the Tribunal shall be a civil court for all purposes.
(4) Proceedings of the Tribunal may be held in camera as and when
deemed appropriate in the circumstances of the case.
Right to legal 333. A party may appear in person or authorise one or more legal practitioners
representation to represent it before the Tribunal.
Judgment of 334.—(1) The Tribunal shall give its judgment in writing and may make
the Tribunal or impose sanctions including penalties, suspensions, withdrawal of registration
or licenses, specific performance, or restitution, and such other sanctions as it
may deem appropriate in each case.
(2) A certified true copy of the decision of the Tribunal shall be supplied to
the parties upon request subject to payment of the prescribed fees.
Exclusion of 335. The Tribunal shall have exclusive jurisdiction on all the matters
proceedings specified in this Act.
Appeal to 336. A person dissatisfied with a decision of the Tribunal may appeal
the Court of against such decision to the Court of Appeal if —
Appeal
(a) the decision was taken in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction, on
points of law only;
(b) it is a final decision taken in the exercise of its original jurisdiction, on
points of law or mixed law and fact; or
(c) it is an interlocutory decision of the Tribunal, on points of law only.
Further 337. An appeal against the decision of the Court of Appeal at the instance
appeals of any party shall lie to the Supreme Court.
Legal 338. A legal practitioner employed by the Tribunal shall be entitled to
representation represent the Tribunal before any court of law in Nigeria.
Protection 339. A suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall not lie against any
for actions member, staff or officer of the Tribunal for anything which is done in good faith
taken in
or intended to be done under this Act or the rules and regulations made under it.
good faith
PART XVIII — MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
340.—(1) The Minister may give to the Commission such directive as
Power of the appears to him to be just and proper for the effective discharge of the functions
Minister and of the Commission under this Act and it shall be the duty of the Commission to
delegation comply.
(2) If the Minister is of the opinion and after consultation with the
Commission, that it is necessary or expedient and in public interest, he may by
order published in the Federal Government Gazette exempt any person or class
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 181
of persons buying or selling securities or otherwise dealing with the securities
market from the operations of the provisions of this Act.
(3) The Commission may, by general or special order in writing delegate
to any member or officer of the Commission or any other person subject to
such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the order, such of its powers and
functions under this Act as it may deem necessary.
341.—(1) A suit shall not be commenced against the Commission before Legal
the expiration of a period of 14 days after written notice of intention to commence proceedings,
the suit shall have been served upon the Commission by the intending plaintiff or pre-action
notice and
his agent, and the notice shall clearly and explicitly state the cause of action, the
right to
particulars of the claim, the name and address of the intending plaintiff and the
represent
relief which he claims.
Commission
(2) A legal practitioner employed by the Commission shall be entitled to before Court
or Tribunal
represent the Commission before any court or the Tribunal.
342. A suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall not lie against any Protection of
officer, member or other employee of the Commission for anything which is action taken
done in good faith or intended to be done under this Act or the rules and regulations in good faith
made under it.
343.—(1) Except as otherwise specifically provided under this Act, any Penalty
person who contravenes or contributes in the contravention of this Act or of any
rule and regulation made under it, is liable to a penalty of not less than N1,000,000
and a further sum of N20,000 per day for every day the violation continues.
(2) The Commission may in addition to any penalty that may be prescribed
under this Act or the rules and regulations made under it, direct any person who
has contravened any of the provisions of this Act and any rules and regulations
made under it, to compensate any person who may have suffered any direct loss
as a result of the contravention.
(3) The Commission may in appropriate cases direct a complete
disgorgement of all profits made from the contravention of any provision in this
Act.
(4) The Commission may, in appropriate cases, direct the forfeiture to the
victim, of any direct benefit or advantage received or receivable by the person in
contravention.
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (2), (3) and (4), the
complainant of a contravention may seek by action, consequential or punitive
damages or any other remedy that may be available under the law.
(6) A capital market operator shall be deemed to have ceased to operate as
such if it has ceased to operate for more than 180 days unless it has obtained the
approval of the Commission to do so, or by virtue of any directive issued by the
Commission.
A 182 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(7) The Commission shall, in the exercise of its powers to impose a
penalty or sanction under this Act, accord the person in breach fair hearing.
(8) Where no specific penalty has been prescribed for any criminal
offence under this Act, a person who commits an offence shall on conviction
be liable to a fine of not less than N1,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of
two years or both.
General 344. Except as otherwise specifically provided under this Act a person
offences who —
(a) wilfully obstructs, interferes with or interrupts the Commission in the
performance of its functions or exercise of its powers under this Act commits
an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N10,000,000
or imprisonment for a term of not less than two years or both;
(b) destroys any record which may be required by the Commission for the
performance of any of its functions under this Act, with intent to mislead the
Commission or to prevent or impede any investigation or inquiry under this Act,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than
N20,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of not less than three years or both;
(c) provides any information or furnishes any document which is false,
misleading, or from which there is a material omission, commits an offence
and is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N20,000,000 or
imprisonment for a term of not less than three years or both;
(d) fails to comply with any directive of the Commission made under this
Act, is liable to a penalty of not less than N5,000,000 in the first instance and
N20,000 for every day the violation continues; or
(e) uses any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud, or engages in any act,
practice or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud on
any person, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to imprisonment
for a term of not less than three years or a fine of not less than N5,000,000
and in addition to such other penalty as may be prescribed under this Act and
the rules and regulations made under it.
Criminal 345.—(1) Subject to the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal
prosecution Republic of Nigeria, 1999 relating to the power of prosecution by the Attorney-
Cap. C23, General of the Federation, any legal practitioner in the employment of the
LFN 2004 Commission may with the consent of the Attorney-General of the Federation,
prosecute or defend criminal matters, in the name and on behalf of the Commission
in respect of matters relating to the Nigerian capital market in accordance with
the objectives of this Act.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of any enactment to the contrary, a
person appointed under this provision, who is a legal practitioner shall, while so
appointed be entitled to represent the Commission as legal practitioner for the
purpose and in the course of his employment, without prejudice to the power of
the Commission to engage private legal practitioners in any proceedings.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 183
346.—(1) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a Offences by
company, issuer of securities, or market participant, every person who at the time companies
the offence was committed was in charge of, and was responsible to, the company, and market
participants
issuer of securities or market participant for the conduct of the business of the
company, as well as the company, issuer of securities or market participant, shall
be deemed to have committed the offence and is liable to be proceeded against.
(2) Notwithstanding the provision of subsection (1), where an offence
under this Act has been committed by a company, issuer of securities or market
participant and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent
or connivance of, or is attributable to neglect on the part of, any director, manager,
secretary or other officer of the company, issuer of securities or market
participant, such director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed
to have committed the offence and is liable to be proceeded against.
(3) Where the Commission is satisfied that a person is engaged in any
form of market abuse or other violations under this Act, or by taking or refraining
from taking any action, has required or encouraged another person to engage in
behaviour which if engaged in by a market participant or company amounts to
market abuse or violation under this Act, it may impose on the person a penalty
of such amount or of such nature as it considers appropriate.
(4) Where the Commission is empowered to impose a penalty on a person
or an entity, it may impose a penalty and in addition, may publish a statement to
the effect that the person or entity has engaged in market abuse or violation
under this Act.
347.—(1) An employee of a capital market operator, market participant, Obligation of
public company or other issuer of securities shall have the duty to disclose any persons to
information connected with the activities of his work place which tends to show disclose
information
that —
connected
(a) a criminal offence has been, is being or is likely to be committed; with
(b) a person has failed, is failing, is likely to fail or otherwise omitted to activities of
their
comply with any legal obligation to which he is subject; or
employer
(c) any information tending to show any matter falling within paragraph (a)
or (b) has been, is being or is likely to be concealed.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), it shall be immaterial whether the
relevant failure occurred, occurs or would occur in Nigeria or elsewhere, and
whether the law applying to it is that of Nigeria or any other country or territory.
(3) An information shall be deemed provided in accordance with subsection
(1) if the employee, makes the disclosure in good faith to his employer, and
where his employer fails, refuses or omits to act, to the Commission, or where
the relevant failure or omission relates solely or mainly to the conduct of a
person other than his employer, or any other matter for which a person other
A 184 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
than his employer has legal responsibility, to that other person:
Provided that the employee reasonably believes that the information disclosed
and any allegation contained in it, are substantially true, and in all circumstances
that it is reasonable for the employee to make the disclosure.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3), an employee shall
have the right to make a disclosure directly to the Commission and the
Commission may in appropriate circumstances maintain the anonymity of the
identity of the employee.
(5) In determining whether it is reasonable for the employee to make the
disclosure, regard shall be had to —
(a) the identity of the person to whom the disclosure is made;
(b) the seriousness of the failure, or omission; or
(c) whether the failure is continuing or is likely to occur in the future.
(6) An employer shall not subject an employee to any detriment by any act
or failure to act on the ground that the employee has made a disclosure in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.
(7) Where an employee has been subjected to any detriment in contravention
of subsection (6), he may present a complaint to the Commission.
(8) The Commission shall, on receipt of such complaint, cause an
investigation to be carried out and if satisfied that the provision of this section
has been contravened, the Commission shall direct the affected capital market
operator, market participant, public company or other issuer of securities to
reinstate the affected employee or pay compensation in accordance with
subsection (10) within one month of such directive.
(9) Where the detriment suffered is other than dismissal or termination,
the Commission shall direct the capital market operator, market participant, public
company or other issuer of securities to restore the affected employee to his
appropriate position within one month of such directive.
(10) An employee relieved of his employment without any just cause other
than for reason of disclosure made under this section shall be entitled to a
compensation which shall be calculated as if he had attained the maximum age
of retirement or had served the maximum period of service, in accordance with
his conditions of service.
(11) A capital market operator, market participant, public company or other
issuer of securities which contravenes the provisions of this section is liable to
a penalty of not less than N5,000,000 in addition to the payment of compensation
to the employee in accordance with subsection (10).
(12) For the purpose of this section, ‘detriment’ includes dismissal,
termination, redundancy, withholding of benefits and entitlements, suspension
and any other act that has negative impact on the employee.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 185
(13) Subject to the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic Cap. C23,
of Nigeria, 1999 any provision in any other law or agreement which precludes LFN 2004
the application of this section shall be void.
348.—(1) Where a person has failed to comply with a penalty imposed by Power to
the Commission, the Commission may sue and recover the administrative penalty recover
as a civil debt. administrative
penalties as
(2) Without prejudice to any other remedy, where the Commission has debt
directed a person in breach to make restitution in the form of monetary payment,
and the person in breach fails to pay the restitution, the Commission may sue
and recover the restitution as a civil debt due to the persons aggrieved by the
breach.
(3) Nothing in this section shall preclude the Commission from taking any
of the actions that it is empowered to take under this Act or other applicable
laws against the person in breach.
(4) For the purposes of this section —
“breach” means a failure to comply with directives of the Commission,
observe or give effect to the provisions of this Act or any rules and
regulations made under this Act, in circumstances where there is an
obligation to do so; and
“person in breach” means a person who contravenes or fails to comply
with directives of the Commission, observe or give effect to the provisions of
this Act or any rules and regulations made under this Act, in circumstances
where the person is under an obligation to do so.
349.—(1) A capital market operator shall not, without the prior approval Change of
in writing of the Commission — name of
capital
(a) change the name under which it is registered under this Act or change
market
its shareholding or directors; operators,
(b) use or refer to itself by a name other than the name under which it is managers,
portfolio or
so registered or a literal translation of it; or
collective
(c) use or refer to itself by an abbreviation or a derivative of such name. investment
scheme and
(2) Any change in the name of a capital market operator, manager, portfolio,
change of
scheme, shareholding or directors, shall not be effective without the prior approval
shareholding
in writing of the Commission. or directors
(3) An exchange holding company shall not effect a change in its controlling
shareholding without the prior consent of the Commission.
350.—(1) Except with the written consent of the Commission, a person Prohibition
shall not use a name, or title which includes the word — of use of
certain titles
(a) securities,
(b) exchange,
A 186 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(c) fund manager,
(d) investment, or
(e) broker,
or any other word that suggests that the person is registered to perform a function
in the Nigerian capital market.
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this section is liable to
an administrative penalty of not less than N10,000,000 in the first instance and a
further penalty of N20,000 for every day the violation continues.
Removal of 351.—(1) The Commission may in the interest of investor protection or
appointees public interest, by notice suspend or terminate the appointment of the director
and or officer of a capital market operator or public company, if the director or
cancellation
officer has failed or refused to comply with the provisions of this Act or is no
of
longer a fit and proper person to hold the office.
registration
(2) The Commission may suspend or cancel the registration granted to a
capital market operator who violates the provisions of this Act provided that no
cancellation shall be made unless the person concerned has been given an
opportunity of being heard.
Committees 352.—(1) The Commission may appoint one or more committees, to
of the carry out on its behalf such of its functions as it may determine and a person
Commission
other than a member of the Board or a staff of the Commission shall hold office
on the committee in accordance with the terms of his appointment.
(2) A decision of a committee of the Commission shall be of no effect until
it is confirmed by the Commission.
Seal of the 353.—(1) The affixing of the seal of the Commission shall be authenticated
Commission by the signature of the Director-General and the Secretary or any two members
of the Board duly authorised.
(2) Any contract or instrument which, if made or executed by a person
not being a body corporate, is not required to be under seal shall be made or
executed by or on behalf of the Commission by the Director-General or any
person specially authorised to act for that purpose by the Board.
Application 354.—(l) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act the relevant provisions
and of all existing enactments shall be read with such modification as to bring them
relevance of
into conformity with the provisions of this Act in relation to capital market
other laws
matters.
not barred
Cap. C23, (2) Subject to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999, if the
LFN 2004 provisions of any other law, in relation to capital market matters are inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act, the provisions of this Act shall prevail and the
provisions of that other law shall, to the extent of the inconsistency, be void.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 187
355.—(1) The Commission shall make rules and regulations for the purpose Rules and
of giving effect to the provisions of this Act and shall in particular and without regulations
prejudice to the provisions, make rules and regulations which may include the
underlisted and other incidental matters —
(a) to alter or modify the provisions of the Second Schedule to this Act;
(b) prescribing the forms for returns and other information required under
this Act;
(c) prescribing the procedure for obtaining any information required under
this Act;
(d) requiring returns to be made within the period specified by any entity
to which this Act applies;
(e) prescribing the procedure and criteria for approval of mergers,
takeovers, acquisitions and business combinations under this Act;
(f ) prescribing any fees payable under this Act;
(g) prescribing the manner for regulating securitization transactions in
Nigeria;
(h) prescribing the procedure and criteria for regulating cross-border
offerings, listing and trading of securities by foreign issuers, and free trade
entities;
(i) prescribing that the provisions of this Act shall not apply or shall apply
with such modifications, if any, as may be specified in the rules and regulations
to any person or class of persons or any securities or class of securities or to
any transaction;
(j) prescribing the information to be contained in any prospectus or offer
documents filed under this Act;
(k) prescribing the procedure, criteria for the authorisation, revocation
and operation of collective investment schemes including prudential and product
regulation;
(l) prescribing the activities which constitute insider dealings the rules
governing dealings in securities by insiders and defining the term ‘insider
dealings’;
(m) concerning derivatives, derivatives markets or business, derivatives
exchanges, derivatives market infrastructure, derivatives business operators,
trade association of derivatives business operators, and preventing unfair
derivatives trading practices;
(n) concerning digital and virtual asset services and related activities;
(o) prescribing the treatment of unclaimed money that remain unpaid after
24 months or other prescribed period, after their payment date;
(p) prescribing the establishment of a national confiscation wallet, multi-
party combination wallet;
(q) prescribing the domestication of private keys;
A 188 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(r) without prejudice to the provisions of any law, specifying for the
protection of investors, prescribing —
(i) the returns that are required to be filed by all public companies,
(ii) matters relating to the conduct of annual general meetings,
extraordinary general meetings and other statutory meetings of public
companies and collective investment schemes particularly relating to
attendance, use of proxies, voting and other related matters,
(iii) the form, manner and procedure for obtaining proxies including
the information to be disclosed to investors before proxies are given by
any person,
(iv) corporate governance standards for public companies and regulated
entities,
(v) sustainability reporting guidelines and disclosures including social
and environmental sustainability standards for public companies and
regulated entities,
(vi) the manner in which such matters shall be disclosed by the
companies, and
(vii) the matters to be disclosed relating to the issue of securities,
transfer of securities and matters incidental to it;
(s) prescribing the requirement for the identification of persons doing
business with capital market operators;
(t) prescribing as it deems fit, appropriate rules on treatment of dividends,
unclaimed securities and certificates, and other matters incidental to it;
(u) providing for anything requiring to be prescribed under this Act; and
(v) for carrying out the principles and objectives of this Act.
(2) The Commission shall in the exercise of powers to make rules in this
section consult with stakeholders, and any regulation under this Act shall be
deemed made 15 days after receipt by the Minister unless the Minister, before
the expiration of the 15 days, directs that it be modified, amended or rescinded.
(3) Any instrument issued under subsection (1) shall be under the signature
of the Director-General of the Commission and the Secretary or any two members
of the Board as may be authorised.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) the Commission
may amend or revoke rules or regulations for purpose of giving effect to the
provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations made under it.
(5) Any regulations or rules made under this Act may where appropriate
prescribe penalties for default.
356.—(1) The Investments and Securities Act, No. 29, 2007 is repealed.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 189
Repeals and
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of the Interpretation Act, the repealed
savings
Act shall not affect any document made or anything done or purported to have
Cap. I23,
been done under it.
LFN 2004
(3) Every order, requirement, certificate, notice, circular, direction,
decision, authorisation, consent, application, request or thing made, issued, given
or done under the repealed Act, shall, if in effect at the commencement of this
Act, continue in effect and have effect as if made, issued, given or done under
the corresponding provisions of this Act.
357. In this Act —
Interpretation
“agent” means a person authorised by another to act for or in place of him
and in relation to a securities dealer, includes a person who is, or has been a
banker of the dealer at any given time;
“appropriate officer” means the chief executive or any other officer
authorised by the council of a state government, local government, or board
of a statutory or government agency;
“approving authority” in the case of the Federal Government means the
Federal Executive Council, in the case of a state government means the
executive council of the State, in the case of a local government means the
local government council and in the case of a government agency or statutory
body means the board or the supervisory ministry of that body;
“asset” includes any real or personal property, whether tangible or intangible,
intellectual property, goodwill, choses in action, right, license, cause of action
or claim and any other asset having a commercial value;
“associated person” means a subsidiary, affiliate or agent of a member of
any regulated entity;
“auditor” means a member of a body of accountants, recognised by an
Act or any other enactment and appointed as auditor of a company or collective
investment scheme by managers with the approval of the trustees;
“bid” means an invitation or an offer;
“board of trustees” refers to the board of trustees of an investor protection
fund;
“bond” means an instrument of indebtedness issued by a body to secure
the repayment of money borrowed by such body;
“bond holder” means a person holding a bond and whose name is entered
as the owner in the register;
“book” includes any register, document or other record of information and
any account or accounting record, however compiled, recorded or stored,
whether in written or printed form or micro-film, electronic process or
otherwise;
A 190 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
“breach” means a failure to comply with directives of the Commission,
observe or give effect to the provisions of this Act or any rules made under
this Act, in circumstances where there is an obligation to do so;
“capital market” means a financial market that brings buyers and sellers
together to trade securities, commodities, and other financial assets;
“capital market operator” means any persons, individual or corporate,
duly registered by the Commission to perform specific functions in the capital
market;
“capital market participant” means an investor, issuer, capital market
operator, securities exchange, financial market infrastructure or any other
person or entity participating in the capital market;
“cash” means any cash equivalent other than physical cash;
“central clearing house” means an entity responsible for settling trading
accounts, clearing trades, regulating delivery, and reporting trading data, and
it is a central location or central processing mechanism through which payment
system participants agree to exchange payments;
“central counterparty” means a central clearing house that interposes itself
between counterparties to contracts traded in one or more financial markets,
becoming the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer and thereby
ensuring the performance of open contracts;
“central securities depository” means an entity that enables securities
transactions to be processed and settled by book entry, provides securities
accounts, central safekeeping services, asset services, which may include,
among other things, the administration of corporate actions and redemptions,
and plays an important role in helping to ensure the integrity of securities
issues;
“certificate of registration” means any certificate or license issued by the
Commission as a part of its registration functions under this Act;
“cleared contract” means a clearing member contract or a clearing member
client contract;
“clearing house” in relation to a commodity exchange, means a body
corporate that clears and settles commodity contracts, and ensures that parties
honour contractual obligations arising out of those commodity contracts;
“clearing member” means a user of a central counter party or central
clearing house authorised to perform clearing services, which has entered
into an agreement with the central counter party or central clearing house, or
in relation to a commodities exchange means an institution that is licensed by
a commodities exchange to clear and settle deals resulting from trading on the
exchange on its own account as well as on accounts of its clients;
“clearing member client contract” means a contract between a financial
market infrastructure and one or more clearing members’ clients or indirect
clients which is recorded in the accounts of the financial market infrastructure
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 191
as a position held for the account of a client, an indirect client or a group of
clients or group of indirect clients;
“clearing member contract” means a contract between a financial market
infrastructure and a clearing member recorded in the accounts of the financial
market infrastructure as a position held for the account of a clearing member
itself;
“clearing and settlement company” means any corporate body which acts
as an intermediary in making payments or deliveries or both in connection
with transactions in securities and provides facilities for comparison of data
regarding the terms of settlement of securities transaction or for the allocation
of securities settlement responsibilities;
“client trade” means a contract between two or more clearing members’
clients or indirect clients which corresponds to a clearing member client
contract, other than any excluded trades;
“close-ended investment scheme” means a pooled investment fund in
whatever legal form which raises a fixed and irredeemable amount of capital
for investment into a portfolio of assets and securities in accordance with a
specified investment objective for purposes such as capital preservation and
income generation, and can be listed and traded on a recognised exchange;
“code” means the Nigerian Takeover Code as may be formulated by the
Commission in accordance with the provisions of this Act;
“collateral management company” means a company registered by the
Commission to manage commodities as collateral or engaged in any other
activity connected with or related to any commodity or any other activity as
may be determined by the Commission;
“collateral security” means any realisable asset provided under a charge or
repurchase or similar agreement, or otherwise, including credit claims and
money provided under a charge, for the purpose of securing rights and
obligations potentially arising in connection with a system;
“collateral security charge” means collateral security that consists of
realisable assets, including money, provided under a charge;
“collective investment scheme” means a scheme or arrangement in whatever
form, including an open-ended and close-ended investment scheme, under
which members of the public or qualified investors are invited or permitted to
invest money or other assets in a portfolio, and in terms of which —
(a) two or more investors contribute money or other assets to and hold
a participatory interest in a portfolio of the scheme through shares, units
or any other form of participatory interest;
(b) such contributions are pooled and such portfolio of the scheme is
managed as a whole;
(c) such contributions entitle such investors to hold a participatory
interest in the portfolio of the scheme through shares, units or any other
form of participatory interest; or
A 192 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(d) such investors share the risk and the benefit of investment in
proportion to their participatory interest in a portfolio of a scheme or on
any other basis determined in the deed, but not a collective investment
scheme authorised by any other Act;
“commercial or investment business activities” means any activity relating
to micro, small and medium scale enterprise, venture capital and private equity
funding or such other commercial or investment business activities as the
Commission may determine;
“Commission” means the Securities and Exchange Commission;
“commissioner” means the commissioner in a state responsible for matters
relating to finance;
“commodity” means —
(a) any produce, item, commodities, article, index, right, or interest of
any nature as may be prescribed in the rules and regulations made under
this Act;
(b) produce, items, commodities or article that is the subject of any
commodity forward contract, leveraged commodity trading, contract,
future contract and other commodities derivatives including precious metals,
electricity, crude oil and gas, agricultural produce, livestock, currency,
solid minerals, digital assets, by-products of commodities, processed
commodities products and such other commodities as are customarily
traded on the exchange;
(c) leveraged commodity trading, contract made under trading in
differences, spot commodity trading, or futures trading, including an index,
a right or an interest in such commodity, tangible property or intangible
property of any nature that belongs to a class of indices, rights or interests;
“commodity contract” means any contract in relation to a commodity;
“commodity exchange” means —
(a) a market, whether in Nigeria or any other jurisdiction, registered or
recognised by the Commission where commodity contracts are regularly
made or traded;
(b) an electronic system, whether operating in Nigeria or elsewhere,
through which trading in commodity contracts is carried out, but excludes
an electronic facility which merely provides price or other information
relating to commodity contract, whether that facility is part of or carried
on in conjunction with the provision of any other information not related to
commodity contracts and which does not permit users of the facility to
channel orders for, execute transactions in, or make markets in, commodity
contracts; or
(c) a platform for trading of commodity futures contract and other
commodities derivatives;
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 193
“commodity forward contract” means a contract the effect of which is that
one party agrees to deliver a specified commodity, or a specified quantity of
a specified commodity, to another party at a specified future time and at a
specified price payable at that time, but does not include a commodity futures
contract;
“company” has the same meaning as defined in the Companies and Allied
Matters Act, No. 3, 2020 and includes any other company recognised by the
Commission under any other Act;
“control” means control of an entity by a person who —
(a) beneficially owns more than one half of the issued share capital or
assets of the undertaking;
(b) is entitled to vote a majority of the votes that may be cast at a
general meeting of the company, or has the ability to control the voting of
a majority of those votes, either directly or through a controlled entity of
that person;
(c) is able to appoint or to veto the appointment of a majority of the
directors of the company;
(d) is a holding company, and the company is a subsidiary of that
company as contemplated by the Companies and Allied Matters Act, No.
3, 2020;
(e) in relation to takeover means the acquisition or holding of, or
entitlement to exercise or control the exercise of voting shares or voting
rights of more than 30%, or such other threshold, as may be prescribed by
the Commission;
(f ) in the case of an undertaking that is a trust, has the ability to control
the majority of the votes of the trustees, to appoint the majority of the
trustees or to appoint or change the majority of the beneficiaries of the
trust;
(g) in the case of the undertaking which is a nominee undertaking,
owns the majority of the members’ interest or controls directly or has
the right to control the majority of members’ votes in the nominee
undertaking; or
(h) has the ability to materially influence the policy of the undertaking
in a manner comparable to a person who, in ordinary commercial practice,
can exercise an element of control referred to in paragraphs (a)-(g);
“corner” means to acquire enough units of a security or to hold a significant
commodity position to be able to manipulate its price;
“court” means the Investments and Securities Tribunal, Federal High Court,
or any other court of competent jurisdiction;
“credit enhancement service” means any financial strategy or service
provided by financial institutions or third parties to improve the credit rating,
credit quality or liquidity of a borrower or a financial product;
A 194 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
“custodial agreement” means the agreement drawn up between the
custodian and other parties in a collective investment scheme;
“custodian” means a person who has custody as a bailee of assets,
securities or certificates issued in the name of the investor, or in the name of
a scheme and its trustee which appears in the issuer’s register as the beneficial
or legal owner of such assets, securities or certificates;
“dealer” means a person engaged in the business of buying and selling of
securities for own account;
“dealing member” means a body corporate that is a member of a recognised
exchange and is licensed to engage in dealing in securities on that exchange;
“dealing in securities” means making or offering to make with any person,
whether as principal or agent, or inducing or attempting to induce any person
to enter into or to offer to enter into —
(a) any agreement for or with a view to acquiring, holding, disposing
or subscribing for, or underwriting of securities; or
(b) any agreement for the purpose of securing a profit to any of the
parties from the proceeds or yield of securities or by reference to
fluctuations in the value of securities;
“default arrangement” means a system put in place to limit systemic and
other types of risk which arise in the event of a participant appearing to be
unable, or likely to become unable, to meet its obligations in respect of a
transfer order, including, any default rules within the meaning of Part V - C or
any other arrangement for —
(a) netting;
(b) the closing out of open positions;
(c) the application or transfer of collateral security; or
(d) the transfer of assets or positions on the default of a participant in
the system;
“defaulter” means a person in respect of whom action has been taken by
a financial market infrastructure under its default arrangements;
“default proceeding” means any action taken by a financial market
infrastructure under its default rules;
“default rules” mean the rules of a registered securities exchange or
registered financial market infrastructure which provide for the taking of
action in the event of a person appearing to be unable, or likely to be unable,
to meet his obligations under the rules of the registered securities exchange or
registered financial market infrastructure or otherwise in respect of one or
more market contracts connected with the registered securities exchange or
registered financial market infrastructure;
“delivery” means voluntary transfer of possession or legal title from one
person to another;
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 195
“depositor” means any person who deposits a commodity in a warehouse
for storage, handling, or shipment, or who is the owner or legal holder of an
outstanding warehouse receipt or who is lawfully entitled to possession of
the commodity;
“depository” means a custodian who holds securities on behalf of known
investors but whose name appears on the issuer’s register as a fiduciary
nominee for the benefit of the investors and who operates a system of central
handling of securities of a particular class of an issuer deposited within its
system and may be transferred, loaned or pledged by bookkeeping entry
without physical delivery of certificates;
“derivatives” means any financial instrument or contract that creates rights
and obligations and whose market price, value, delivery or payment obligations
are derived from, referenced to or based on the value of one or more underlying
including an asset, a security, a rate or index, a measure of economic value or
a default event and any other instrument designated as a derivative by rules
and regulations made under this Act;
“director” means a director as defined in the Companies and Allied Matters
Act No. 3, 2020;
“eligible pledgee” means any financial institution licensed by the Central
Bank of Nigeria to among other things provide financing against securities
including warehouse receipts that is admitted to the electronic warehouse
receipt system of a collateral management company;
“entity” means any legal person incorporated under the Companies and
Allied Matters Act No. 3, 2020 or registered under an Act of the National
Assembly, including Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority Act, Cap.
N107, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004, Oil and Gas Free Zones
Authority Act, Cap. O5, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004 and
subnational, local governments, agencies of government and supranational
bodies;
“exchange” in relation to an investor protection fund means the securities
exchange which established the fund;
“exchange holding company” means a parent company of any entity
approved as a securities exchange or any other entity that has been approved
as an exchange holding company by the Commission;
“executive council” means the Federal Executive Council or the executive
council of a state;
“executive officer” in relation to a body corporate, means any person by
whatever name called and whether a director or not who participates in the
management of the body corporate;
“expert” means an engineer, legal practitioner, accountant or any other
person whose profession gives authority to a statement made or action taken
by him;
A 196 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
“facility” when used with respect to an exchange includes its premises,
tangible or intangible property whether on the premises or not, any right to
the use of such premises or property or any service for the purpose of effecting
or reporting a transaction on an exchange including any system of
communication to or from the exchange, by ticker or otherwise, maintained
by or with the consent of the exchange, and any right of the exchange to the
use of any property or service;
“filing” means delivery to the Commission through mails, electronically or
otherwise of all papers or applications required to be filed with the Commission
under this Act and regulations made under this Act, and the date on which the
papers or applications are actually received by the Commission at its principal
office shall be the date of filing the papers or applications;
“financial market infrastructure” means any entity set up to carry out
centralised, multilateral clearing, settlement, caching or recording activities,
or provide a platform for trading securities, and, includes systemically
important market participants, trade repositories, securities exchanges, central
counterparties, central clearing houses, central securities depositories, and
securities settlements systems;
“financial sector regulator” means any government authority, body, agency
or entity within or outside Nigeria responsible for —
(a) monitoring, mitigating and managing systemic risk for promoting
financial stability; or
(b) the supervision or oversight of financial market intermediaries or
capital market participants;
“general obligation debt securities” means debt securities issued to finance
the various projects of the government and repayable out of the general revenue
and assets of the issuer;
“government securities” means securities which are direct obligations of
and whose principal and interest repayments are guaranteed by the Federal
Government of Nigeria, a State Government or a Local Government;
“holder” in relation to —
(a) collective investment scheme means any investor or beneficiary
who has acquired units of a collective investment scheme and is entitled to
a pro-rata share of dividends, interest, profit or other income of the securities
comprised in the units; or
(g) warehouse receipt means a person who is in possession of a
warehouse receipt and has proprietary interest in the commodities;
“income accrual” in relation to a collective investment scheme means any
dividend or interest or profit or any other income for distribution received by
the trustee, custodian or manager on behalf of investors in a portfolio in the
course of any income distribution period or carried forward from any previous
income distribution period or due to such investors in respect of dividends or
interest or any income declaration made but not yet distributed;
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 197
“indirect participant” means an institution, central counterparty, settlement
agent, clearing house, or system operator —
(a) which has a contractual relationship with a participant in a system
that enables the indirect participant to effect transfer orders through that
system, and
(b) the identity of which is known to the system operator;
“insider” includes —
(a) any person who is connected with the company in any of the
following capacities—
(i) a director of the company or a related company,
(ii) an employee or officer of the company or a related company,
(iii) an employer of the company or a related company,
(iv) a person involved in a professional or business relationship with
the company,
(v) any shareholder of the company who owns 5% or more of any
class of securities;
(vi) members of audit committee of a company; or
(vii) in any relationship whatsoever with the company, its member
or any other insider listed in subparagraph (i) to (vi);
(b) any of the persons not listed in paragraph (a), who by virtue of
having been connected with any such person or connected with the
company in whatever way, possesses unpublished price sensitive
information in relation to the securities of the company;
(c) any person holding unpublished price sensitive information in relation
to securities of a particular body corporate; and
(d) other persons who misappropriated, and took advantage of,
confidential information from their employers;
“insider dealing or insider trading” means buying or selling of securities
by an insider and occurs when a person or group of persons who being in
possession of confidential, non-public and price sensitive information utilises
such information to buy or sell securities for his or its benefit or for the
benefit of any other person;
“insolvency proceedings” means any judicial or administrative proceeding
in Nigeria against a person or an entity under a law relating to bankruptcy or
insolvency in which the assets and affairs of the person or entity are subject
to the control or the supervision of a tribunal, judicial or administrative body
for the purpose of reorganisation or liquidation and extends, where appropriate,
to an administrative and business rescue-oriented receivership where the
interests of various categories of creditors, collective insolvency priority and
preference rules are acknowledged whether based on a special statute or
otherwise;
A 198 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
“institution” in relation to a financial market infrastructure means —
(a) relevant capital market operator;
(b) a public authority or publicly guaranteed undertaking;
(c) any undertaking whose head office is outside Nigeria and whose
functions correspond to those specified in paragraphs (a) and (b); or
(d) any undertaking which is treated by the Commission as an institution
which participates in a system and is responsible for discharging the financial
obligations arising from transfer orders effected through the system;
“internal control” means policies, procedures and practices prescribed by
management to ensure safety of assets, accuracy of financial records and
reports, achievement of corporate objectives and compliance with laws,
regulations and applicable corporate governance standards;
“investment adviser” means a person registered by the Commission to
carry on the business of advising others concerning securities, or issue, publish
analysis or make reports concerning securities:
Provided that the term investment adviser shall not include —
(a) a Trank as defined in the Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act,
No. 5, 2020;
(b) a company or society registered under the Insurance Act Cap. I 17
laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004;
(c) the proprietor of a newspaper and holder of a permit issued under the
Newspapers Act and where —
(i) the newspaper is distributed generally to the public, it is distributed
only to subscribers to, and purchasers of, the newspaper for value,
(ii) the advice is given or the analysis or reports are issued or published
only through that newspaper,
(iii) no person receives any commission or other consideration for
giving the advice or for issuing or publishing the analysis or reports, and
(iv) the advice is given and the analysis and reports are issued or
published solely as incidental to the conduct of that person’s business as a
newspaper proprietor;
“investor protection fund” means a fund established by an exchange to
mitigate losses suffered by investors;
“invitation” means a statement, however expressed, which offers securities
to a person or class of persons;
“issuer” means —
(a) any person or entity that issues securities under this Act,
(b) in relation to collective investment schemes, any person or company
discharging the duties of a manager under the provisions of the trust deed
or other agreement under which the units or securities are issued or such
other person as may be determined by the Commission, or
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 199
(c) in relation to issuance of securities under Part XVI, the body or
bodies referred to in section 268 of this Act;
“legal entity identifier” means a code that uniquely identifies every distinct
entity or structure that is a party to a financial transaction;
“listed company” means a company admitted into the official list of a
securities exchange for the purpose of, among others, the quotation, trading
of, and dealing in, the securities of the company and which is subject to the
regulatory oversight of that securities exchange;
“listing” means the admission of securities, commodities, financial products
or instruments into the official list of a registered exchange for the purpose
of, among others, the admission, quotation, trading of, and dealing in such
securities, commodities, financial products or instruments which is subject
to the regulatory oversight of that securities exchange;
“listing rules” means regulations applicable to any listed company or listing
on a registered exchange, subject to the oversight and approval of the
Commission”;
“loan” means internal loan and includes any arrangement under which a
body is to be afforded credit facilities and references to the making, acceptance,
repayment or application for a loan or to any other form of transaction relating
to a loan shall be construed accordingly; or means any arrangement for a
credit facility including the making, acceptance, repayment and application of
such facility or any other transaction connected to it;
“manager” means a fund or portfolio manager registered by the
Commission;
“market charge” means a charge, whether fixed or floating, granted in
favour of a financial market infrastructure for the purpose of securing debts
or liabilities arising from and in connection with ensuring the performance of
market contracts;
“market collateral” means one or more of the forms of security accepted
by a financial market infrastructure;
“market contract” in relation to securities exchange and financial market
infrastructure means contracts by —
(a) a member of the securities exchange with a person other than the
securities exchange whether or not made on the securities exchange;
(b) the securities exchange, with its member, or with a financial market
infrastructure or with another securities exchange, for the purpose of
enabling the rights and liabilities of that member or financial market
infrastructure or other securities exchange under a transaction to be settled;
(c) a securities exchange with its member or with a financial market
infrastructure or with another securities exchange for the purpose of
providing central counterparty services to that member or financial market
infrastructure or other securities exchange;
A 200 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(d) a financial market infrastructure, with its member or with another
financial market infrastructure, for the purpose of —
(i) enabling the rights and liabilities of that member or other financial
market infrastructure under a transaction to be settled, or
(ii) providing central counterparty services to that member or other
financial market infrastructure; or
(e) a financial market infrastructure in relation to transactions cleared
through its system including clearing member contract, clearing member
client contract and client trade;
“market contract” means —
(a) in relation to securities exchange, contracts entered into by —
(i) a member of the securities exchange with a person other than
the securities exchange which are either contracts made on the securities
exchange or contracts, the making of which the member was subject
to the rules of the securities exchange,
(ii) the securities exchange, with a member of the securities
exchange, or with a financial market infrastructure or with another
securities exchange, for the purpose of enabling the rights and liabilities
of that member or financial market infrastructure or other securities
exchange under a transaction to be settled, or
(iii) a securities exchange with a member of the securities exchange
or with a financial market infrastructure or with another securities
exchange for the purpose of providing central counterparty services to
that member or financial market infrastructure or other securities
exchange;
(b) in relation to a financial market infrastructure, contracts entered
into by the financial market infrastructure, with a member of the financial
market infrastructure, or with another financial market infrastructure, for
the purpose of —
(i) enabling the rights and liabilities of that member or other financial
market infrastructure under a transaction to be settled, or
(ii) providing central counterparty services to that member or other
financial market infrastructure;
(c) in relation to transactions cleared through a financial market
infrastructure —
(i) a “clearing member house contract” being a contract between a financial
market infrastructure and a clearing member recorded in the accounts of the
financial market infrastructure as a position held for the account of a clearing
member itself,
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 201
(ii) a “clearing member client contract” being a contract between a financial
market infrastructure and one or more clearing members’ clients or indirect
clients which is recorded in the accounts of the financial market infrastructure
as a position held for the account of a client, an indirect client or a group of
clients or group of indirect clients,
(iii) a “client trade” being a contract between two or more clearing
members’ clients or indirect clients which corresponds to a clearing member
client contract, other than any excluded trades, or
(iv) contracts entered into by a financial market infrastructure with another
financial market infrastructure for the purpose of providing central counterparty
services to a securities exchange or clearing house;
“market participant” means any person involved in any aspect of capital
market transaction or operation under this Act;
“market venue” means any platform whether physical or virtual where
securities and other financial instruments are traded;
“member” means a company which carries on business of dealing in
securities and is recognised as a member of a securities exchange;
“merger” means the amalgamation, combination, acquisition, establishment,
or otherwise directly or indirectly, by one or more persons, whether by
purchase of shares or lease of assets, resulting in a joint venture, control over
or significant interest in the whole or a part of a business of any other person;
“Minister” means the Minister responsible for matters relating to finance;
“offer” means a statement, however expressed, which offers securities to
a person or class of persons;
“offeree company” means a company whose shares are the subject of a
take- over bid;
“offeror” means a person or two or more persons jointly or in concert
who make a take-over bid;
“open-ended investment company” means a collective investment scheme
incorporated as a company with variable capital permitting realisation or
redemption of shares of representative investment value in the underlying
portfolio of assets or securities of the company;
“participatory interest” means any interest, undivided unit or share whether
called a participatory interest, unit or by any other name, and whether the
value of such interest, unit, undivided share or shares remain constant or
varies, which may be acquired by an investor in a portfolio;
“participant” in relation to Part V means —
(a) an institution;
(b) a system operator;
(c) a body corporate or unincorporated association which performs
any combination of the functions of a financial market infrastructure,
A 202 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
registered by the Commission to perform clearing and related functions
such as a central counterparty, a settlement agent or a clearing house, with
respect to a system; or
(d) an indirect participant which is treated as a participant, or is a
member of a class of indirect participants which are treated as participants.
“penalty” means administrative fines or other sums imposed by the
Commission and payable to the Commission;
“person in breach” means a person who contravenes or fails to comply
with directives of the Commission, observe or give effect to the provisions of
this Act or rules and regulations made under this Act, in circumstances where
the person is under an obligation to do so.
“portfolio” means a group of assets including any amount of cash;
“portfolio investment” means, an investment in the form of a portfolio,
including transaction in securities;
“prohibited scheme” including those commonly known as a “Ponzi or
Pyramid Scheme” means —
(a) any investment scheme that pays existing contributors with funds
collected from new contributors to the scheme promising high returns
with little or no risk whether or not the scheme —
(i) limits the number of persons who may participate, either expressly
or by the application of conditions affecting the eligibility of a person to
enter into, or receive compensation under the scheme, or
(ii) is operated at a physical address or through the internet or other
electronic means, or
(b) any scheme where participants attempt to make money by recruiting
new participants usually where —
(i) the promoter promises a high return with little or no risk,
(ii) no genuine product or service is actually sold,
(iii) the primary emphasis is on recruiting new participants,
(iv) the product or service is not registered, or
(v) the promoters or marketers are not licensed or registered;
“project-tied debt securities” means debt securities issued to fund specific
capital projects and backed by the asset or income of the project for which
the bond was issued and may also mean a revenue bond;
“promoter” means promoter as defined in the Companies and Allied Matters
Act No. 3, 2020 and includes promoter of a collective investment scheme;
“promissory note” means a promissory note issued by a body under the
provisions of this Act; or means an unconditional promise signed by the maker
promising to pay a fixed sum of money on demand or at a specified time.
“prospectus” means any written or electronic information, notice,
advertisement or other forms of invitation offering to the public for subscription
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 203
or purchase, any shares, debentures or other approved and recognised
securities of a company and other issues or scheme and includes offer for
sale, advertisement, circular, letter, notice, electronic website or app or other
equivalent statements or document published or circulated electronically, via
print media or otherwise relating to the collective investment scheme and
inviting prospective investors to register into the scheme by reason of the
representation made;
“public officer” means any person working in the public service of the
Federation, States and Local Governments or as defined in the Constitution
of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999, Cap. C23, Laws of the Federation of
Nigeria, 2004;
“qualifying property transfer” means the transfer of a tangible or intangible
property made in accordance with the default rules of the financial market
infrastructure;
“quotation” means the provision of information on the bid and offer prices
on securities, commodities, financial products or instruments for the purpose
of facilitating the trading of, and dealing in such securities, commodities,
financial products or instruments;
“register” means the register of securities and of the holders of such
securities;
“registrar” means an entity registered by the Commission to perform the
functions of a registrar and is usually engaged in —
(a) creating and maintaining the register of members of an issuer;
(b) counter-signing such securities upon issuance;
(c) monitoring the issuance of such securities with a view to preventing
unauthorised issuance;
(d) registering the transfer of such securities;
(e) exchanging or converting such securities; and
(f ) transferring record ownership of such securities by book-keeping
entry without physical issuance of securities certificates;
“regulated entity” means an entity or institution that is registered, regulated
or recognised by the Commission to perform functions, carry out activities
or act in any other manner as may be prescribed under this Act or the rules
and regulations made under this Act;
“related company” means any body corporate which is a company’s
subsidiary or holding company or a subsidiary of that company’s holding
company;
“rules” in relation to a registered exchange, means the rules governing the
members by whatever name called and wherever contained and includes rules
contained in the memorandum of association and the articles of association
of the securities exchange;
A 204 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
“securities” means —
(a) debentures, stocks or bonds issued by a government;
(b) debentures, stocks, shares, bonds, notes issued by a body corporate,
any right or option in respect of any such debentures, stocks, shares, bonds
or notes;
(c) virtual and digital assets;
(d) investment contracts;
(e) commodities, futures, contracts, options and other derivatives; or
(f ) any other instrument deemed as securities which may be transferred
by means of any electronic mode or which may be deposited, kept or stored
with any depository or custodian;
“securities dealer” means a firm who is a member of a securities exchange
or any other recognised place for securities transactions, engaged in the
business of transacting in securities on own account, or on the account of
others or both;
“securities exchange or registered exchange” means an organised facility
which maintains and provides an infrastructure —
(a) for bringing together buyers and sellers of securities, virtual assets,
commodities, or financial products or instruments;
(b) for matching bids and offers for securities, virtual assets,
commodities, or financial products or instruments of multiple buyers and
sellers; and
(c) whereby a matched bid and offer for securities, virtual assets,
commodities, or financial products or instruments constitutes a transaction;
“securities holder” means a person holding securities and whose name is
entered as the owner in the register;
“securities lending” means the temporary exchange of securities, generally
for cash or other securities of at least an equivalent value, with an obligation
to return a like quantity of the same securities on a future date and includes
securities loan, repurchase agreement, and self-buy back agreements;
“securities settlements system” means an entity that enables securities to be
transferred and settled by book entry according to a set of predetermined
multilateral rules, and such systems allow transfers of securities either free of
payment or against payment;
“securities transfer agent” means a registrar or any entity, registered by
the Commission and appointed by an issuer to maintain the register of holders
of securities;
“self-regulatory organisation” means any entity registered or recognised
by the Commission as such;
“settlement account” means an account used to hold funds, securities or
other assets and to settle transactions between participants in a system;
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 205
“settlement agent” means a body corporate providing settlement accounts
to the institutions and any financial market infrastructure which is registered
by the Commission to perform clearing and related functions such as a central
counterpart, a settlement agent or a clearing house in a system for the
settlement of transfer orders within the system and, for extending credit to
such institutions and any such entity for settlement purposes;
“share” means a proprietary interest in the share capital of a body corporate
and except where a distinction between stock and shares is expressed or
implied, includes stock;
“significant market participant” means a registered market operator
whose —
(a) market activities directly or indirectly, as measured by its gross
revenue, operating assets, assets under management, mean value of
securities traded, account for at least 25% of aggregate revenue arising
from activities in the sector or market, aggregate operating assets in the
sector or market, aggregate assets under management in the sector or
market or aggregate securities traded in a sector or market;
(b) consolidated revenue of subsidiaries or associates or related parties
under a group structure generated from their activities constitute at least
25% of the aggregate revenue arising from activities of the sector or the
market, or whose consolidated operating assets, assets under management
account for at least 25% of the aggregate operating assets or assets under
management of the sector or market; or
(c) any other entity as the Commission may determine.
“stockbroker” means a member of any association or institute of
stockbrokers registered by the Commission as a market operator and a dealing
member of a securities exchange;
“surplus money” means money payable to subscribers resulting from over
subscription of an offer;
“system” means a formal arrangement operated by any financial market
infrastructure which is registered by the Commission for the purposes of
recording, clearing or settling payments, securities, derivatives or other financial
transactions, through which transfer orders may be executed, cleared or
settled in accordance with common rules and standardised arrangements;
“system operator” means the entity or entities legally responsible for the
operation of a system;
“systemic risk” means a situation where one or more of the following
events occur or is likely to occur in the capital market —
(a) financial distress in a systemically important market participant or
in a number of market participants;
(b) an impairment in the orderly functioning of the capital market;
A 206 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(c) an erosion of public confidence in the integrity of the capital market;
(d) a major market disturbance characterised by or constituting sudden
fluctuations of securities prices that threaten fair and orderly dealing in the
capital market;
(e) a major market disturbance characterised by or constituting a
substantial disruption in the system for clearance and settlement of
transactions;
(f ) a major disruption in the functioning of the capital market or of a
significant segment of the market, including a major disruption in the
availability of capital to market participants;
(g) a major disruption in the transmission, execution or processing of
securities transactions;
(h) a substantial threat of such a major market disturbance or major
disruption; or
(i) any other event as may be determined by the Commission;
“systemically important market participant” means a significant market
participant designated as such by the Commission, or other regulatory authority,
with the potential to trigger systemic risk;
“take-over” except as may be otherwise defined in the Code, means the
acquisition by one company of sufficient shares in another company to give
the acquiring company control over that other company;
“take-over bid” means an offer made to acquire all or part of the voting
shares or voting rights, or any class or classes of voting shares or voting
rights, in a company and includes —
(a) a take-over or merger transaction which has the effect or potential
effect of obtaining or consolidating control in the company;
(b) a partial offer as defined in the Code;
(c) a take-over offer by a parent company for the voting shares or
voting rights in its subsidiary; or
(d) an arrangement or reorganisation that involves the voting shares or
voting rights of a listed company;
“tradable instrument” refers to tradable assets, or negotiable items, such
as securities, commodities, warehouse receipts, financing contracts,
derivative, index, or any item that underlies a derivative;
“trade repositories” means an entity that maintains a centralised electronic
record or database of transaction data;
“trust account” means an account —
(a) established under a trust deed, or
(b) kept by a capital market operator on behalf of his client;
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 207
“trust deed” means an agreement drawn up between —
(a) the trustee and the manager of a collective investment scheme,
(b) the trustee and issuer of a bond or other debt instrument, or
(c) any other parties approved by the Commission;
“trustee” —
(a) under a unit trust scheme or such other arrangement, means the
corporate entity in whom the property for the time being subject to any
trust created under the scheme is or may be vested in accordance with the
terms of the trust; or
(b) with respect to revocation of registration of the scheme, means
such qualified person and professional appointed by the Commission to
take-over the role of a trustee of the scheme and administer same in the
best interest and protection of the investing public;
“unclaimed money” means money due to investors or shareholders as a
result of an aborted offer, rejected application, over subscription, buy-out,
squeeze-out, take-over, reconstruction or other related transactions;
“underwriter” means a person registered by the Commission who has
temporarily purchased securities from an issuer with a view to offering or
selling the securities in connection with the distribution of such securities;
“units” in relation to a unit trust scheme, means any participatory interest
howsoever described into which are divided the beneficial interest in the assets
subject to any trust created under the scheme;
“unit trust scheme” means any arrangement made for the purpose, or having
the effect, of providing facilities for the participation of the public as
beneficiaries under a trust in profits or income arising from the acquisition,
holding, management or disposal of securities or any other property;
“unpublished price sensitive information” means information which —
(a) directly or indirectly relates to matters of concern that are not of
general nature to a company, and
(b) is not generally known to the public but may materially affect the
price of the securities of the company;
“warehouse” means any commercial space, building, silo, cold chain, tank
farm or compressed tank, vessel, vault, structure or other protected enclosure
approved by the Commission to be used or useable, for the storage or
conditioning of commodities or buildings used for storage purposes or
including operation of a warehouse which issues warehouse receipt in relation
to commodities to be traded on a registered exchange;
“warehouse operator” means a person registered under this Act engaged in
the business of operating or controlling a warehouse for receiving, storing,
shipping or handling of commodities for a fee and includes its agent or employee;
A 208 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
“warehouse operator’s lien” means the right of a warehouse operator to
recoup fees and charges for services rendered or supplied or repayment of
sums advanced in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the term
“right of lien” shall be construed accordingly;
“warehouse receipt” means a document of title to commodities in whatever
form issued by a warehouse operator, collateral manager, or other persons
permitted by the Commission to issue a warehouse receipt in respect of
commodities deposited in a warehouse; and
“warehouse receipt system” means a centralised electronic system maintained
by a warehouse operator or collateral management company or any other
entity approved by the Commission for the registration of possession,
ownership and transfer of commodities stored in a registered warehouse and
matters incidental to it.
Citation 358. This Act may be cited as the Investments and Securities Act, 2025.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 209
SCHEDULES
FIRST SCHEDULE Section 11(3)
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF THE COMMISSION
1.—(1) The Commission may, subject to this Act, make standing orders
regulating its proceedings or those of any of its committees.
(2) At any meeting of the Board of the Commission the Chairman shall
preside and, in his absence, the members present at the meeting shall appoint
one of their members to preside.
(3) The quorum for a meeting of the Board of the Commission shall be
five members, two of whom shall be non-executive members.
(4) Where the Board of the Commission desires to obtain the advice of
any person on a matter, the Board may co-opt such person for such period as it
deems necessary, provided that such person shall not be entitled to vote at any
meeting of the Board and shall not count in forming a quorum.
(5) Unless as otherwise provided in this Act, decisions shall be by a simple
majority of the vote of the members present but, in case of an equality of votes,
the presiding Chairman shall have a casting vote.
Committees
2.—(1) The Board may appoint one or more standing or ad-hoc committees
to perform on its behalf such of its functions as it may determine.
(2) A committee appointed under this paragraph shall consist of such
number of persons (which may include non-members of the Board) as may be
determined by the Board and a person other than a member of the Board shall
hold office on the committee in accordance with the terms of his appointment.
(3) A decision of a committee appointed under subparagraph (1) shall be
of no effect until it is approved by the Board.
(4) The quorum of a meeting of a committee of the Commission shall be
as determined by the Board.
(5) The Chairman of a committee shall have a casting vote.
Conflict of interest
3. Any member of the Commission and any person holding office on a
committee of the Commission who has a personal interest in any contract or
arrangement entered into or proposed to be considered by the Commission or a
committee shall disclose his interest, recuse himself and not vote on any question
relating to the contract or arrangement.
A 210 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
SECOND SCHEDULE Section 355(1)(a)
INVESTMENTS AND INVESTMENT BUSINESS
PART I — TYPES OF INVESTMENTS
Investments Include-Shares
1. Shares and stock in the share capital of a company.
Debentures
2. Debentures, including debenture stock, loan stock, bonds and other
instruments creating or acknowledging indebtedness, not being instruments falling
within paragraph 3 of this Schedule.
Government and Public Securities
3. Loan stock, bonds and other instruments creating or acknowledging
indebtedness issued by or on behalf of a supranational, government, local or
public authorities.
Virtual Assets
4. Virtual assets, digital assets and other distributed ledger technology
(DLT) offers, tokens and products.
Instruments Entitling to Shares or Securities
5. Warrants or other instruments entitling the holder to subscribe for
investments falling within paragraphs 1- 4 of this Schedule.
Certificates Representing Securities
6. Certificates or other instruments which confer —
(a) proprietary rights in respect of any investment falling within paragraphs
1- 5 of this Schedule;
(b) any right to acquire, dispose of, underwrite or convert an investment,
being a right to which the holder would be entitled if he held any such
investment to which the certificate or instrument relates; or
(c) a contractual right (other than an option) to acquire any such investment
otherwise than by subscription.
Units or Shares in Collective Investment Scheme
7. Units or shares in a collective investment scheme shall include shares in
a closed ended investment company or an open-ended investment company or a
real estate investment company, units in a unit trust scheme or a real estate
investment trust and participatory in a scheme in whatever form.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 211
Options
8. Options to acquire or dispose of —
(a) an investment falling within any other paragraph of this Schedule;
(b) currency of the Federal Republic of Nigeria or of any other currency
traded on the securities exchange;
(c) gold or silver;
(d) an option to acquire or dispose of investments falling within this
paragraph by virtue of subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c); or
(e) such other investments as may be deemed by the Commission as an
option.
Futures
9. Rights under contract for the sale of a commodity or property of any
other description under which delivery is to be made at a future date at a price
agreed upon when the contract is made.
10. Forms of investment or capital instrument within the meaning of
investment generally and such other investments as may be deemed by the
Commission as an option.
PART II — INVESTMENT BUSINESS
Dealing in Securities
1. Buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting investments or offering
or agreeing to do so, either as principal or as an agent.
Arranging deals in Investments
2. Making, offering or agreeing to make arrangements with a view to —
(a) another person buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a
particular investment; or
(b) a person who participates in the arrangements buying, selling,
subscribing for or underwriting investments.
Managing Investments
3. Managing, offering or agreeing to manage assets belonging to another
person if —
(a) those assets consist of or include investments; or
(b) the arrangements for their management are such that those assets may
consist of or include investments at the discretion of the person managing or
offering or agreeing to manage them.
A 212 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Investment Advice
4. Giving, or offering or agreeing to give, to persons in their capacity as
investors or potential investors advice on the merits of their purchasing, selling,
subscribing for or underwriting an investment, or exercising any right conferred
by an investment to acquire, dispose of, underwrite or convert an investment.
Establishing Collective Investment Schemes
5. Establishing, operating or winding up a collective investment scheme,
including acting as manager, trustee or custodian of a collective investment
scheme.
6. Any other activity falling within the definition of activities constituting
investment business.
Investment Contracts
7. Establishing a contract or scheme for the placing of capital or laying
out of money in a way intended to secure income or profit from its employment
by the promoter.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 213
THIRD SCHEDULE
Sections 101(1), 104(1), (2), 107(1), (3),
108(1)(b), (c), (d) and 118 (b)
PART I — MANDATORY CONTENTS OF A PROSPECTUS
The Company’s Proprietorship, Management and its Capital Requirement
1. The prospectus shall state the —
(a) number of founders or management or deferred shares, if any, and the
nature and extent of the interest of the holders in the property and profits of
the issuer;
(b) number of shares, if any, fixed by the issuer’s articles as the qualification
of a director or its equivalent, and any provision in the articles as to the
remuneration of directors or its equivalent; and
(c) names, descriptions and addresses of the directors or its equivalent or
proposed directors or its equivalent.
2. Where shares are offered to the public for subscription, the prospectus
shall give particulars of the —
(a) minimum quantum which in the opinion of the directors or its equivalent,
must be raised by the issue of those securities in order to provide the sums
(or, if any part of them is to be defrayed in any other manner, the balance of
the sums) required to be provided in respect of each of the following —
(i) the purchase price of any property purchased or to be purchased
which is to be defrayed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the issue,
(ii) any preliminary expenses payable by the issuer, and any commission
so payable to any person in consideration of his agreeing to subscribe for,
or of his procuring subscriptions for, any securities in the entity,
(iii) the repayment of any money borrowed by the issuer in respect of
any of the foregoing matters, and
(iv) working capital; and
(b) amounts to be provided in respect of the matters mentioned otherwise
than out of the proceeds of the issue and the sources out of which those
amounts are to be provided.
Details Relating to the Offer
3. (1) The prospectus shall state the —
(a) time of the opening of the subscription lists; and
(b) amount payable on application and allotment on each, including the
amount, if any, payable by way of premium.
A 214 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(2) In the case of second or subsequent offer of securities, there shall also
be stated the amount offered for subscription on each previous allotment made
within the two preceding years, the amount actually allotted and the amount, if
any, paid on the securities so allotted, including the amount, if any, paid by way
of premium.
4.—(1) There shall be stated the number, description and amount of any
shares or debentures of the issuer company which any person has, or is entitled
to be given an option to subscribe for.
(2) The following particulars of the option shall be given the —
(a) period during which it is exercisable;
(b) price to be paid for shares or debentures subscribed for under it;
(c) consideration, if any, given or to be given for it or the right to it; and
(d) names and addresses of the persons to whom it or the right to it, was
given or, if given to existing shareholders or debenture holders as such the
relevant shares or debentures.
(3) References in this paragraph to subscribing for shares or debentures
include acquiring them from a person to whom they have been allotted or agreed
to be allotted with a view to his offering them for sale.
5. The prospectus shall state the number and amount of shares and
debentures which within the two preceding years have been issued, or agreed to
be issued, as fully or partly paid up otherwise than in cash, and —
(a) in the latter case the extent to which they are so paid up; and
(b) in either case the consideration for which those shares or debenture
have been issued or are proposed or intended to be issued.
Property acquired or to be acquired by the Company
6.—(1) For purposes of paragraphs 8 and 9 of this Schedule, relevant
property is property purchased or acquired by the issuer, or proposed to be
purchased or acquired —
(a) which is to be paid wholly or partly out of the proceeds of the issue
offered for subscription by the prospectus; and
(b) the purchase or acquisition of which has not been completed at the
date of the issue of the prospectus.
(2) Paragraphs 8 and 9 of this Schedule shall not apply to property —
(a) the contract for which purchase or acquisition was entered into in the
ordinary course of the issuer’s business, the contract not being made in
contemplation of the issue nor the issue in consequence of the contract; or
(b) in respect of which the amount of the purchase money is not material.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 215
7. In respect of any relevant property, the prospectus shall state —
(a) the names and addresses of the vendors;
(b) the amount payable in cash, shares or debentures to the vendor and,
where there is more than one separate vendor, or the issuer is a sub-purchaser,
the amounts so payable to each vendor; and
(c) short particulars of any transaction relating to the property completed
within the two preceding years in which any vendor of the property to the
issuer or any person who is, or was at the time of the transaction, a promoter
or a director or his equivalent or proposed director or his equivalent of the
issuer had any interest direct or indirect.
8. There shall be stated the amount, if any, paid or payable as purchase
money in cash, shares or debentures for any relevant property, specifying the
amount, if any, payable for goodwill.
9.—(1) Subparagraphs (2) - (4) shall apply with respect to the interpretation
of paragraphs 6-8 of this Schedule.
(2) Every person is deemed a vendor who has entered into any contract
(absolute or conditional) for the sale or purchase, or for any option of purchase
of any property to be acquired by the company, in any case where the —
(a) purchase money is not fully paid at the date of the issue of the
prospectus;
(b) purchase money is to be paid or satisfied wholly original, paid out of
the proceeds of the issue offered for subscription by the prospectus; or
(c) contract depends for its validity or fulfilment on the result of that issue.
(3) Where any property to be acquired by the issuer is to be taken on
lease, the provisions of paragraphs 6 - 8 of this Schedule shall apply as if “the
vendor” includes the lessor, “purchase money” includes the consideration for
the lease, and “sub-purchaser” includes a sub-lessor.
(4) For the purposes of paragraph 8 of this Schedule, where the vendors
or any of them are a firm, the members of the firm are not to be treated as
separate vendors.
Commission and Preliminary Expenses
10.—(1) The prospectus shall state —
(a) the amount, if any, paid within the two preceding years, or payable, as
commission, but not including commission to sub-underwriters, for
subscribing or agreeing to subscribe, or procuring or agreeing to procure
subscriptions, for shares in or debentures of the company, or the rate of any
such commission;
(b) the amount or estimated amount of any preliminary expenses and the
person by whom any of those expenses have been paid or are payable, and
A 216 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
the amount or estimated amount of the expenses of the issue and the persons
by whom any of those expenses have been paid or are payable; and
(c) any amount or benefit paid or given within the two preceding years or
intended to be paid or given to any promoter, and the consideration.
(2) Subparagraph (1), so far as it relates to preliminary expenses, does not
apply in the case of a prospectus issued more than two years after the date at
which the issuer is entitled to commence business.
Contracts
11.—(1) The prospectus shall give the date of parties to and general
nature of every material contract.
(2) Subparagraph (1) does not apply to a contract entered into in the
ordinary course of the business carried on or intended to be carried on by the
issuer, or a contract entered into more than two years before the date of issue of
the prospectus.
Auditors
12. The prospectus shall state the names and addresses of the issuer’s
auditors.
Interests of Directors and their Equivalents
13.—(1) The prospectus shall give full particulars of the —
(a) nature and extent of the interest, if any, of every director or his
equivalent in the promotion of, or in the property proposed to be acquired
by the issuer; and
(b) interest of such a director or his equivalent in being a partner in a firm,
and the nature and extent of the interest of the firm.
(2) With the particulars under subparagraph (1)(b) must be provided a
statement of all sums paid or agreed to be paid to the director or his equivalent or
the firm in cash or securities or otherwise by any person either to induce him to
become, or to qualify him as, a director or his equivalent or otherwise for services
rendered by him or the firm in connection with the promotion of the issuer.
(3) This paragraph does not apply in the case of a prospectus issued more
than two years after the date at which the issuer is entitled to commence business.
Other Matters
14. Where any prospectus inviting the public for subscription of shares
for which the company’s share capital is divided into different classes of shares,
the prospectus shall state the voting right at meetings of the company as conferred
by, and the rights in respect of capital and dividends attached to, the several
classes of shares respectively.
15. Any prospectus shall state the length of operation of the issuer.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 217
PART II — AUDITORS’ AND ACCOUNTANTS’ REPORTS TO BE
SET OUT IN THE PROSPECTUS
16.—(l) The prospectus shall set out a report by the issuer’s auditors with
respect to —
(a) profits and losses and assets and liabilities, in accordance with sub-
paragraphs (2) and (3), as the case requires; and
(b) the rates of the dividends, if any, paid by the company in respect of
each class of shares in the respective five financial years immediately preceding
the issue of the prospectus, detailing such class of shares for which such dividends
were paid and of which dividends was not paid:
Provided that where no account was made in respect of any part of the five
years, ending on a date three months before the issue of the prospectus, the
report shall contain a statement of that fact.
(2) Where the issuer has no subsidiaries, the report shall deal with —
(a) profits and losses of the issuer in respect of each of the five financial
years immediately preceding the issue of the prospectus; and
(b) the assets and liabilities of the issuer at the last date to which the
issuer’s accounts were made up.
(3) Where the issuer has subsidiaries, the report shall deal separately with —
(a) the issuer’s profits or losses, as provided by subparagraph (2), and in
addition deal either —
(i) as a whole with the combined profits or losses of its subsidiaries, if
it concerns members of the issuer, or
(ii) individually with the profits or losses of each subsidiary if it concerns
members of the issuer, or, instead of dealing separately with the issuer’s
profits or losses, deal as a whole with the profits or losses of the issuer
and (if they concern members of the issuer) with the combined profits and
losses of its subsidiaries; and
(b) deal separately with the issuer’s assets and liabilities as provided by
subparagraph (2), and in addition deal either —
(i) as a whole with the combined assets and liabilities of its subsidiaries
with or without the issuer’s assets and liabilities, or
(ii) individually with the assets and liabilities of each subsidiary, indicating
the assets and liabilities of the subsidiaries, the allowance to be made for
persons other than members of the issuer.
Accountants’ Report
17. Where, the proceeds of the issue of the shares or debentures are to be
applied directly or indirectly in the purchase of any business, there shall be set
out in the prospectus a report by accountants on the —
A 218 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
(a) profits or losses of the business in respect of each of the five years
immediately preceding the issue of the prospectus; and
(b) assets and liabilities of the business at the last date to which the accounts
of the business were made up.
18.—(1) Subparagraphs (2) and (3) apply if —
(a) any proceeds of the issue are to be applied directly or indirectly in any
manner resulting in the acquisition of shares in any other body corporate; and
(b) by reason of that acquisition or in consequence of or in connection
with it, that body corporate shall become a subsidiary of the issuer.
(2) There shall be set out in the prospectus a report by accountants upon
the —
(a) profits or losses of the other body corporate in respect of each of the
five years immediately preceding the issue of the prospectus; and
(b) assets and liabilities of the other body corporate at the last date to
which its accounts were made.
(3) The accountants’ report required by this paragraph shall —
(a) indicate how accounting treatment of profits or losses of the acquired
body shall affect the issuer’s assets and liabilities and whether there exist
allowances to be made in relation to such assets and liabilities of the acquiring
company; and
(b) where the other body corporate has subsidiaries, deal with the profit
or losses and the assets and liabilities of the body corporate and its subsidiaries
in the manner provided by paragraph 16(3) of this Schedule in relation to the
company and its subsidiaries.
Provisions Interpreting Preceding Paragraphs and
Modifying them in Certain Cases
19. Where, in the case of an issuer which has been carrying on business,
or of a business which has been carried on for less than five years, the accounts
of the issuer or business have only been made up in respect of four years, three
years, two years or one year, the preceding paragraphs of this Part have effect
as if references to four years, three years, two years or one year (as the case
may be) were substituted for references to five years.
20. The expression financial year, in this Part means the year in respect of
which the accounts of the issuer or of the business (as the case may be) are
made up, and where by reason of any alteration of the date on which the financial
year of the issuer or business terminates the accounts have been made up for a
period greater or lesser than one year, that greater or lesser period is for purposes
of this Part deemed to be a year.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 219
21. Any report required by this Part shall either indicate by way of note
any adjustments in respect of the figures of any profits or losses or assets and
liabilities dealt with by the report which appear to the persons making the report
necessary, or shall make those adjustments and indicate that adjustments have
been made.
22.—(1) A report required by paragraph 17 or 18 of this Schedule shall be
made by accountants qualified under this Act for appointments as auditors of an
issuer.
(2) Such a report shall not be made by any accountant who is an officer or
servant, or partner of or in the employment of an officer or servant, of the
issuer or the issuer’s subsidiary or holding company or of a subsidiary of the
issuer’s holding company; and in this subparagraph, “officer” includes a proposed
director or his equivalent.
(3) The accountant making any report for purposes of paragraph 17 or 18
of this Schedule shall be named in the prospectus.
A 220 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
FOURTH SCHEDULE Section 112
FORM OF STATEMENT IN LIEU OF PROSPECTUS TO BE DELIVERED TO
THE COMMISSION BY A COMPANY AND REPORTS TO BE SET OUT IN IT
PART I — FORM OF STATEMENT AND PARTICULARS TO BE CONTAINED IN IT
Statement in lieu of prospectus delivered for registration by ................................
Pursuant to ................................ section of the Companies and Allied Matters
Act, No, 3, 2020.
Delivered for registration by…………… shares of x…… the nominal share
capital of the…............shares of x …..........…… issuer divided
into………………. shares of x................
Amount (if any) of above capital which consists of redeemable shares ..................
The earliest date on which the issuer has power to redeem these shares................
Names, descriptions and addresses of directors or his equivalent or proposed
directors......................................................................................................
Amount of shares issue ...............................................................................
Amount of commissions paid in connection with the issue of the shares
................................................................................................................
Amount of discount, if any, allowed on the issue of shares, or so much of them
as has not been written off at the date of the statement…………………………….
Amount (if any) paid or payable as commission for subscribing or agreeing to
procure subscriptions for any shares or debentures in the issuer:
Amount paid…………………………………..
Payable………………………………………..
Rate of the commission………………………
The number of shares (if any) which persons have agreed of a commission to
subscribe absolutely.
Rate or percentage ................................
Unless more than one year has elapse since the date on which the issuer was
entitled to commence business.
Naira .......................................................................................................
Amount of preliminary expenses ..................................................................
By whom those expenses have been paid or are payable ...................................
Name of promoters ...................................................................................
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 221
Amount paid or intended to be paid to promoter ……………..................…….
Consideration for payment ………………………………………….................
Amount (Naira)
Intended to be paid………..............….........................................................
Consideration……………………………………………………………...........
Any other benefit given to any promoter ……………..........…………………..
Name of promoter ………................…………………………………………..
Nature and value of benefit ………................………………………………….
Consideration for giving of benefit consideration……………...………………..
If the share capital of the company is divided into different classes of shares, the
right of voting at meetings of the rights in respect of capital and dividends
attached to, the several classes of shares respectively.
Shares of Naira fully paid .................…………… upon which Naira per share
credited as paid ……………………………………….................……………..
Number and amount of shares and debentures issued within the two years
preceding the date of this statement as fully or partly paid up otherwise than for
cash or agreed to be so issued at the date of this statement.
Debenture ………………………........………………………………………….
Consideration for the issue or intended issue of those shares or debenture.
Consideration ……………………………………..........................................
Number, description and amount of any shares or debentures which any persons
has or is entitled to be given an option to subscribe for, or to acquire from a person
to whom they have been allotted with a view to his offering them for sale.
Share of Naira of …………………………………………………………………
Debentures ………………...…………………………………………………….
Period during which option is exercisable ……………………………………….
…………………………….......…………………………………………………
Price to be paid for shares or debentures subscribed for or acquired under
option.
Consideration ………………………………...………………………………….
Consideration for option or right to option.
Persons to whom option or, right to option was given or, if given to exist in
shareholders or debenture holders as such the relevant shares or debentures
…………………………...............................................…………………….
A 222 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
Names and addresses of vendors of property purchased or acquired, or proposed
to be purchased or acquired, or proposed to be purchased or acquired by the
company except where the contract for its purchase or acquisition was entered
into in the ordinary course of the business intended to be carried on by the
company or the amount of the purchase money is not material, or in the case or
re-registration of a private company as public, names and addresses of vendors
property (1) purchased or acquired by the company within the two years
preceding the date of this statement or (2) agreed or proposed to be purchased
or acquired by the company, except where the contract for its purchase or
acquisition was entered into in the ordinary course of business and there is no
connection between the contract and the company or where the amount of the
purchase money is not material.
Name……………………………………...…
Address………………………………..…….
Name ………………………………......……
Address…………………………….....……..
Total Purchase Price ……………....………..
Amount paid or payable in cash, shares or debentures for any such property,
specifying the amount paid or payable for goodwill
Cash……………………………………………
Share…………………………………………...
Debenture………………………………………
Goodwill………………………………………..
Short particulars of any transaction relating to any such property which was
completed within the two preceding years and in which any vendor to the
company or any person who is, or was at the time of such transaction a promoter,
director or proposed director of the company had any interest direct or indirect.
Particulars .………………………………………………………………………
Date of, parties to, and general nature of every material contract (other than
contract entered into in the ordinary course of business or entered into more
than two years before the delivery of this statement).
Date of ……………………………………. parties to
Nature of contract …………………………………………...………………….
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 223
Time and place at which the contracts or copies of them may be inspected and,
in the case of a contract wholly or partly in a foreign language, a copy of a
translation of it in English or embodying a translation in English or of the parts in
a foreign language, as the case may be, being a translation certified in the
prescribed manner to be a correct translation.
Time………………………………………………….
Place………………………………………………….
Name of Auditor……………………………………..
Address ……………………………………………..
Full particulars of the nature and extent of the interest of every director in any
property purchased or acquired by the company within the two years preceding
the date of this statement or proposed to be purchased or acquired by the company
or, where the interest of such a director consists in being a partner in a firm, the
nature and extent of the interest of the firm with a statement of all sums paid or
agreed to be paid to him or to the firm in cash or shares, or otherwise, by any
person either to induce him to come or to qualify him as a director or otherwise
for services rendered or to be rendered to the company by him or by the firm.
Nature and extent, of interest of director ……….................................……..
Rates of the dividends, if any, paid by the company in respect of each class of
shares in the company in each of the five years immediately preceding the date
of this statement or since the incorporation of the company whichever period is
the shorter.
Rates of dividends …………….............................................………………..
Particulars of the cases in which no dividends have been paid in respect of any
class of shares in any of these years.
Particulars (signature of the persons named above as directors or proposed
directors or of their agents authorised in writing) ……………………………….
Date ……………....………….
PART II — REPORTS TO BE SET OUT
1. Where it is proposed to acquire a business, there shall be set out a
report made by accountants (who shall be named in the statement) upon the —
(a) profits or losses of the business in respect of each of the five
financial years immediately preceding the delivery of the statement to the
Commission; and
(b) assets and liabilities of the business at the last date to which the accounts
of the business were made up.
A 224 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
2. Where it is proposed to acquire share in a body corporate which by
reason of the acquisition or anything to be done in consequence or in connection
with it will become a subsidiary of the company, there shall be set out a report
made by accountants (who shall be named in the statement) with respect to the
profits and losses and assets and liabilities of the other body corporate in
accordance with paragraph 3 (1) or (2) of this Schedule, as the case requires,
indicating —
(a) how the profits or losses of the other body corporate dealt with by the
report would in respect of the shares to be acquired, have concerned members
of the company; and
(b) what allowance would have fallen, to be made in relation to assets and
liabilities so dealt with, for holders of other shares, if the company had at all
material times held the shares to be acquired.
3.—(1) If, in the case mentioned in paragraph 2 of this Part of this Schedule
the other body corporate has no subsidiaries, the report referred to in that paragraph
shall so far as regards —
(a) profits and losses, deal with the profits or losses of the body corporate
in respect of each of the five financial statement years immediately preceding
the delivery of the statement to the Commission; and
(b) assets and liabilities, dealt with the assets and liabilities of the body
corporate at the late date to which the accounts of the body corporate were
made up.
(2) If the other body corporate has subsidiaries, the report shall —
(a) so far as regards profits and losses, deal separately with the other body
corporate’s profits or losses as provided by subparagraph (1) (a), and in
addition deal either —
(i) as a whole with the combined profits or losses of its subsidiaries, if
they concern members of the other body corporate, or
(ii) individually with the profits or losses of each subsidiary, so far as
they concern members of the other body corporate; instead of dealing
separately with the other body corporate’s profits or losses, deal as a
whole with the profits or losses of the other body corporate, with the
combined profits or losses of its subsidiaries; and
(b) so far as regards assets and liabilities, deal separately with the other
body corporate’s assets and liabilities as provided by subparagraph (1) and, in
addition, deal either —
(i) as a whole with the combined assets and liabilities of its subsidiaries,
with or without the other body corporate’s assets and liabilities, or
(ii) individually with the assets and liabilities of each subsidiary, and
shall indicate as respects the assets and liabilities of the subsidiaries the
allowance to be made for persons other than members of the company.
Investments and Securities Act, 2025 2025 No. 2 A 225
PART III — PROVISIONS APPLYING TO PART I AND II OF THIS SCHEDULE
4. In this Schedule the expression “vendor” includes a vendor as defined
in paragraph 9 of the Third Schedule of this Act.
5. If, in the case of business which has been carried on, or of a body
corporate which has been carrying on business, for less than five years, the
accounts of the business or body corporate have only been made up in respect
of four years, three years, two years, or one year, Part II of this Schedule shall
have effect as if references to four years, three years, two years or one year, as
the case may be, were substituted for references to five years.
6. Any report required by Part II of this Schedule shall either indicate by
way of note any adjustments as respects the figures of any profits or losses of
assets and liabilities dealt with by the report which appear to the persons making
the report necessary, shall make those adjustments and indicate that adjustments
have been made.
7. Any report by accountants required by Part II of this Schedule shall be
made by accountants qualified under this Act for appointment as auditors of a
company and shall not be made by any accountant who is an officer or servant,
or a partner of or in the employment of an officer or servant of the company, or
of the company’s subsidiary or holding company or of a subsidiary of the
company’s holding company; and for the purposes of this paragraph the
expression “officer” shall include a proposed director but not an auditor.
I, certify, in accordance with Section 2 (1) of the Acts Authentication Act,
Cap. A2, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004, that this is a true copy of
the Bill passed by both Houses of the National Assembly.
KAMORU OGUNLANA, Esq.
Clerk to the National Assembly
6th Day of March, 2025.
A 226 2025 No. 2 Investments and Securities Act, 2025
5202
,LLIB
SEITIRUCES
DNA
STNEMTSEVNI
EHT
OT
ELUDEHCS
)5(
)4(
)3(
)2(
)1(
yb
dessaP
etaD
yb
dessaP
etaD
eht
fo
yrammuS
lliB
eht
fo
eltiT
gnoL
eltiT
trohS
fo
esuoH
eht
etaneS
eht
lliB eht
fo
stnetnoC
lliB
eht
fo
sevitatneserpeR
,rebmeceD
ht21
,rebmeceD
ht4
dna
stnemtsevnI
eht
slaeper
lliB
sihT
dna
stnemtsevnI
eht
laeper
ot tcA
nA
stnemtsevnI
.4202
.4202
stcane
dna
7002 ,92
.oN
,tcA
seitiruceS
stcane
dna
7002
,92
.oN
,tcA
seitiruceS
seitiruceS
dna
,tcA
seitiruceS
dna
stnemtsevnI
eht
,5202
,tcA
seitiruceS
dna
stnemtsevnI
eht
5202
,lliB
dna
seitiruceS
eht
hsilbatse
ot
,5202
egnahcxE
dna
seitiruceS
eht
hsilbatse
ot
xepa
eht
sa noissimmoC
egnahcxE
yrotaluger
xepa
eht
sa
noissimmoC
nairegiN
eht rof ytirohtua
yrotaluger
tekraM
latipaC
nairegiN
eht
rof
ytirohtua
etaluger
ot
sa llew
sa
tekraM
latipaC
erusne
ot
tekram
eht
etaluger
ot
sa llew
sa
,noitamrof
latipac erusne
ot
tekram
eht
fo
noitcetorp
eht
,noitamrof
latipac
ecnanetniam
,srotsevni
fo
noitcetorp
eht
tneiciffe
,riaf
fo
ecnanetniam
,srotsevni
tekram
tnerapsnart
dna
tneiciffe
,riaf
fo
fo
noitcuder
dna
tekram
tnerapsnart
dna
.ksir
cimetsys
fo
noitcuder
dna
.srettam
detaler
dna
;ksir
cimetsys
eb
ot
em
yb
dnuof
dna
ylbmessA
lanoitaN
eht
yb dehcaer
noisiced
eht
htiw
em
yb
derapmoc
ylluferac
neeb
sah
lliB
siht
taht
yfitrec
I
fo
swaL
,2A
.paC
tcA
noitacitnehtuA
stcA
eht fo snoisivorp
eht
htiw
ecnadrocca
ni
si
dna
sesuoH
eht
fo noisiced
tcerroc
dna
eurt
.4002
,airegiN
fo
noitaredeF
eht
TNESSA
I
.qsE
,ANALNUGO
UROMAK
ylbmessA
lanoitaN
eht
ot
krelC
SL
.5202
,hcraM
fo
yaD
ht6
RFCG
,UBUNIT
DEMHA
ALOB
airegiN
fo
cilbupeR
laredeF
eht
fo
tnediserP
.5202
,hcraM
fo
yaD
ht52
