ExtraoNridgienraiar yDeposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 455
Federal Republic of Nigeria
Official Gazette
No. 97 Lagos - 29th May, 2023 Vol. 110
Government Notice No. 63
The following is published as supplement to this Gazette :
Act. No. Short Title Page
33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 .. .. .. .. A457-511
Printed and Published by The Federal Government Printer, Lagos, Nigeria
FGP 86/52023/1,200
Annual Subscription from 1st January, 2023 is Local : N50,000.00 Overseas : N65,000.00 [Surface
Mail] N80,000.00 [Second Class Air Mail]. Present issue N3,500 per copy. Subscribers who wish to obtain
Gazette after 1st January should apply to the Federal Government Printer, Lagos for amended Subscriptions.
A 456 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 457
NIGERIA DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION ACT, 2023
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
Section :
PART I—ESTABLISHMENT AND FUNCTIONS OF THE CORPORATION
1. Establishment of the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation
2. Public policy objectives
3. Functions of the Corporation
4. Powers of the Corporation
5. Prohibition against proliferation of Deposit Insurance Schemes
6. Offices of the Corporation
PART II—ADMINISTRATION OF THE CORPORATION
7. Composition of the Board
8. Tenure and remuneration of part-time members of the Board
9. Disqualification of members of the Board
10. Composition of Interim Management Committee
11. Filling of vacancy in the Board
12. Conflicts of interest
13. Responsibilities and powers of the Board
14. Appointment of the Managing Director and Executive Directors
15. Appointment of Secretary and other staff
PART III—CAPITAL AND FUNDS OF THE CORPORATION
16. Capital
17. Deposit Insurance Funds
18. Operating Fund of the Corporation
19. General Reserve Fund
20. Bank Account and Investment of Funds of the Corporation
PART IV—DEPOSIT INSURANCE SCHEME
21. Participating financial institutions
22. Insurable deposit
23. Assessment of insured institutions and special contribution
24. Prohibition of set-off
25. Maximum claim
26. Right to set-off obligor's deposit
27. Application of Global Standing Instruction Scheme and statutory right to funds of
obligors in insured institutions
A 458 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
28. Payment of insured deposit
29. Payment of insured deposit pending action in Court
30. Power to withhold deposits on discharge of the Corporation
31. Interim dividend payment
PART V—TERMINATION OF INSURED STATUS
32. Grievous violation of obligations
33. Conditions for termination of insured status
34. Procedure upon termination of insured status
35. Conditions for participation after termination of insured status
PART VI—SUPERVISION OF INSURED INSTITUTIONS
36. Power of the Corporation to require information
37. Investigation in respect of related entities of insured institutions
38. Appointment, powers and functions of examiners
39. Duties of insured institutions in relation to examination
40. Special examination
41. Report of examination
42. Confidentiality of examination report
43. Recommendation to Central Bank of Nigeria on violations
PART VII—DUTIES OF INSURED INSTITUTIONS
44. Fidelity Insurance
45. Obligations in respect of unauthorised disclosure
46. Returns on frauds and forgeries
47. Notification to the Corporation of dismissed staff and employment of dismissed staff
48. Foreclosure of mortgages
PART VIII—FAILURE RESOLUTION OF INSURED INSTITUTIONS
49. Financial assistance
50. Technical assistance
51. Mergers and acquisitions
52. Purchase and assumption
53. Acquisition of insured institution whose capital is lost
54. Bridge banks
PART IX—LIQUIDATION OF INSURED INSTITUTIONS
55. Appointment as liquidator
56. Inapplicability of Chapter 21 of the Companies and Allied Matters Act and winding-
up rules
57. Action following a failure
58. Power to appoint agents
59. Right of disposal of collateral
60. Closure of failed insured institutions
61. Limitation law not applicable
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 459
62. Power of the Corporation as liquidator
63. Power to take interim custody
64. Freezing powers
65. Special powers in bankruptcy
66. Special power to track and trace
67. Special power to obtain information from insured institution
68. Special powers in winding up
69. Protection of the Corporation in respect of judicial proceedings
70. Prohibition of assets stripping
71. Pre-liquidation contracts
72. Priority of claims
73. Stay of pending suits
74. Termination of liquidation activities
75. Inconsistency with other laws
76. Liability of directors, shareholders and officers
PART X—CRIMINAL PROSECUTION AND OFFENCES
77. Offences and penalties
78. Civil damages
79. Power to compound offences
80. Power to investigate
81. Right to appear in court
82. Accounts and audit
83. Annual report
PART IX—GENERAL PROVISIONS
84. Liquidation expenses
85. Advertisement
86. Exemption from taxation
87. Exemption from Insurance Act
88. Power to borrow
89. Relationship with the Central Bank of Nigeria
90. External auditors of all insured institution and reporting requirements
91. Indemnity of the Corporation
92. Pre-action notice
93. Service of process
94. Designation of special judges
95. Institution of action at the Special Tribunal
96. Regulations
97. Liquidation of the Corporation
98. Repeal, savings and transitional provisions
99. Interpretation
100. Citation
SCHEDULE
A 460 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 461
NIGERIA DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION ACT, 2023
ACT NO. 33
AN ACT TO REPEAL THE NIGERIA DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION ACT, NO. 16, 2006
AND ENACT THE NIGERIA DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION ACT, 2023;
AND FOR RELATED MATTERS.
[26th Day of May, 2023] Commence-
ment.
ENACTED by the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria-
PART I—ESTABLISHMENT AND FUNCTIONS OF THE CORPORATION
1.—(1) There is established the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (in Establishment
this Act referred to as "the Corporation"). of the Nigeria
Deposit
(2) The Corporation— Insurance
Corporation.
(a) shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal;
(b) may sue or be sued in its corporate name; and
(c) may, for the purposes of its functions under this Act and subject to the Cap. L5, LFN,
Land Use Act, acquire, hold, and dispose of any property movable or 2004
immovable.
(3) The Corporation shall be independent in the performance of its functions.
(4) The Corporation shall,subject to subsection (3), develop, adopt and, as
appropriate, amend, revoke or supplement appropriate regulations, codes,
guidelines and procedures to regulate its operations in the performance of its
functions.
(5) The regulations, codes, guidelines and procedures referred to in
subsection (4) shall, govern the—
(a) conduct of the business and operations of the Corporation in a manner
that—
(i) fosters accountability and good corporate governance,
(ii) ensures transparency and consistency with the highest ethical
standards, and
(iii) ensures the maintenance of best practice ;
(b) expenditures and disbursements of the Corporation in accordance with
the provisions of this Act;
(c) governance code for the Corporation;
(d) code of conduct of members of the Board and staff of the Corporation;
and
(e) any other matter relevant to the operations of the Corporation as may be
directed by the Board.
A 462 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
Public policy 2. The Corporation shall have the following public policy objectives—
objectives.
(a) protecting depositors by providing an orderly means of compensation
in the event of failure of their insured institutions or the inability of such insured
institutions to make payment to depositors :
Provided that in the latter case such payment shall only be made with the
concurrence of the Central Bank of Nigeria ;
(b) contributing to financial system stability through effective surveillance
mechanisms in its role as a key participant in the financial system safety-net
arrangement ; and
(c) enhancing public confidence and financial system stability by—
(i) providing orderly exit mechanisms for failed insured institutions,
and
(ii) with the concurrence of the Central Bank of Nigeria, providing a
framework for the resolution of failing insured institutions.
Functions of 3. The functions of the Corporation are—
the
Corporation. (a) guaranteeing, underthe provisions of this Act, deposit liabilities of
financial institutions licensed or authorised to accept deposits from the public
Act No. 5, in accordance with the provisions of the Banks and Other Financial Institutions
2020. Act ;
(b) with the concurrence of the Central Bank of Nigeria, supervising insured
institutions to mitigate the risk of failure ;
(c) with the concurrence of the Central Bank of Nigeria, resolution of failing
insured institutions ; and
(d) prompt, efficient and orderly liquidation of failed insured institutions.
Powers of the 4. The Corporation shall,in addition to such other powers as stated in this
Corporation. Act, have power to—
(a) insure deposit liabilities and guarantee payment to depositors of insured
institutions within the scope of section 22 of this Act up to the maximum
amount provided in, or under, section 25 of this Act in the event of revocation
of the operating license of an insured institution or in the case of actual
suspension of payments by an insured institution:
Provided that in the case of actual suspension of payments by an insured
institution, payment of insured deposit shall only be made with the concurrence
of the Central Bank of Nigeria ;
(b) give assistance to insured institutions in the interest of depositors in
case of imminent or actual financial or technical difficulties, particularly where
suspension of payments is threatened, to avoid damage to public confidence
in the banking system ;
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 463
(c) assist the Central Bank of Nigeria in the formulation and implementation
of banking policies to ensure sound banking practice and fair competition
among banks in the country; and
(d) undertake such other measures or perform such other activities which in
the opinion of the Board are necessary, incidental, or conducive to the attainment
of the public policy objectives of this Act and the performance of the functions
of the Corporation.
5.—(1) Notwithstanding any provision contained in any other law, no person Prohibition
other than the Corporation shall insure deposit liabilities, or guarantee payments against
proliferation
to depositors, of insured institutions.
of deposit
insurance
(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of this section commits an
schemes.
offence and is liable on conviction to, in the case of-
(a) an individual, a fine of N10,000,000 and a further N200,000 for each
day the offence continues, or imprisonment for a term not more than five years
or both ; or
(b) a corporate body, a fine of N50,000,000 and a further N1,000,000 for
each day the contravention continues.
(3) In addition to the penalty in subsection (2), a person who contravenes
subsection (1) shall be liable on conviction to forfeit to the Government of the
Federation a sum equivalent to two times the cumulative premiums or other amount
collected in contravention of subsection (1).
6.—(1) The Corporation shall have its head office in the capital of the Federal Offices of the
Corporation.
Republic of Nigeria.
(2) Without prejudice to subsection (1), the Corporation may open other
offices in any part of Nigeria and appoint agents and correspondents as may be
approved by the Board.
PART II—ADMINISTRATION OF THE CORPORATION
7.—(1) The governing body of the Corporation shall be a Board of Directors Composition
(in this Act referred to as "the Board"). of the Board.
(2) The Board shall consist of—
(a) the Chairman who shall be the Permanent Secretary of the Federal
Ministry responsible for finance ;
(b) the Managing Director ;
(c) two Executive Directors ;
(d) one representative of the Central Bank of Nigeria who shall be the
Director of Banking Supervision ;
(e) the Director-General of the Securities and Exchange Commission ; and
(f ) one independent director.
A 464 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
(3) The members of the Board shall not be persons with significant interest
in any insured institution in Nigeria.
(4) The President shall appoint the Chairman and other members of the
Board and the appointment of the members of the Board referred to in subsection
(2)(b), (c) and (f ) shall be subject to the confirmation of the Senate.
(5) The appointment of the—
(a) Managing Director and the two Executive Directors by the President
shall be on the recommendation of the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria;
and
(b) independent director by the President shall be on the recommendation
of the Minister.
(6) The members of the Board other than the Managing Director and the
two Executive Directors shall be part-time members.
(7) The members of the Board shall be citizens of Nigeria and in the case of
the—
(a) Managing Director and Executive Directors, shall be persons possessing
at least 15 years cognate experience in banking and finance, economics, law,
business administration, accounting or other relevant discipline at a senior
management level ; and
(b) member of the Board referred to in subsection (2)(f ), shall be a person
with relevant cognate experience.
(8) All members of the Board shall within one month of appointment to the
Board declare in writing to the Board their direct and indirect shareholdings and
interests in any insured institution including those of their family members or
close associates known to them.
Schedule. (9) The supplementary provisions contained in the Schedule to this Act
shall have effect with respect to matters mentioned in it.
Tenure and 8.—(1) The independent director referred to in section 7(2)(f ) of this Act,
remuneration shall hold office for a term of four years, renewable for another term of four years
of part-time
and no more.
members of
the Board.
(2) The part-time members of the Board shall be paid such reasonable
remuneration and allowances as approved by the Minister on the recommendation
of the Board.
Disqualification 9.—(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, a person shall cease to
of members of hold office as a member of the Board if he—
the Board.
(a) becomes bankrupt, suspends payment or compounds with his creditors ;
(b) is convicted of a felony or any offence involving dishonesty or fraud ;
(c) becomes of unsound mind, or incapable of carrying out his duties ;
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 465
(d) is guilty of a serious misconduct in relation to his duties ;
(e) in the case of a person possessing professional qualifications, is
disqualified or suspended other than at his own request from practising his
profession in any part of the world by an order of a competent authority made
in that respect ;
(f ) resigns his appointment by a letter addressed to the President, through
the Minister responsible for finance ;
(g) is discovered to have significant interest in any insured institution in
Nigeria in contravention of section 7(3) of this Act ; or
(h) is found to have failed to disclose to the Board, his interest or the interest
of any family member or close associate, known to him in any insured institution
at the time of his appointment.
(2) No director or employee of an insured institution shall, while in office,
be appointed a director of the Corporation.
10.—(1) Whenever the tenure of the Board expires or is otherwise Composition
terminated, and pending the appointment of a new Board, the responsibilities of of Interim
Management
the Board shall be discharged by an Interim Management Committee to be
Committee.
constituted by the Minister.
(2) The Interim Management Committee shall comprise of the—
(a) Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Finance, who shall be the
Chairman ;
(b) Managing Director of the Corporation ;
(c) two Executive Directors of the Corporation ;
(d) representative of the Central Bank of Nigeria ; and
(e) Director-General of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
11. Where a member of the Board appointed under section 7 (2) (b), (c) Filling of
and (f ) of this Act dies, resigns, is disqualified or removed, or otherwise vacates vacancy in the
Board.
office before the expiration of his term, the President shall, in accordance with
section 7 (4) and (5) of this Act appoint another person to fill the vacancy.
12.—(1) A member of the Board owes fiduciary duties to the Corporation Conflicts of
and shall ensure that his personal interest does not conflict with his duties under interest.
this Act.
(2) A member of the Board shall not make a secret profit in the course of
discharging his duties as a member of the Board.
(3) A member of the Board shall fully and promptly disclose to the Board
any personal, commercial, financial, or other interest which he may directly or
indirectly hold or be connected with, and which becomes the subject of
consideration by the Board, and shall be ineligible to participate in any Board
deliberations and voting related to it :
A 466 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
Provided that such an interest, if so disclosed, shall not disqualify such
member for the purpose of constituting a quorum.
(4) A member of the Board shall not accept any gift or advantage for himself
or on behalf of any person with whom he may have a family, business, or financial
relationship if the acceptance would impair, or may reasonably be viewed as
likely to impair, his impartiality in the discharge of his duties under this Act.
(5) A member of the Board who contravenes any of the provisions of this
section commits an offence and isliable on conviction to a fine of at least
N5,000,000 or to imprisonment for a term at least five years or both.
Responsibilities 13.—(1) The Board shall be responsible for—
and powers of
the Board. (a) the attainment of the public policy objectives of this Act ;
(b) the overall policy and general supervision of the affairs of the Corporation
toward the efficient and effective performance of the functions of the
Corporation ; and
(c) such other matters as may be prescribed by any other provision of this
Act.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), and in addition to
such other powers vested in the Board by other provisions of this Act, the Board
shall have power to—
(a) superintend over the affairs of the Corporation ;
(b) act in the name of the Corporation ;
(c) acquire and approve the acquisition of offices and other premises for
the use of the Corporation ;
(d) make, alter and revoke rules, guidelines, circulars, and regulations for
attaining the public policy objectives and performing the functions, carrying
on the operations, activities, and business of the Corporation under this Act ;
(e) appoint officers and staff who in the opinion of the Board are required
for performing the functions of the Corporation, including the examination of
insured institutions ;
(f ) to the exclusion of any other authority, body or person, fix the terms and
conditions of service of the employees of the Corporation, including
Act No. 4, remuneration, allowances and pension benefits in accordance with the Pension
2014. Reform Act ;
(g) make, alter, or revoke disciplinary rules and procedures and measures
for the staff, officers and other employees of the Corporation ; and
(h) do such other things and enter into such other transactions which in the
opinion of the Board are reasonably incidental, supplementary or conducive
to the exercise of powers of the Corporation and the performance of the
functions of the Corporation.
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 467
14.—(1) There shall be appointed for the Corporation— Appointment
of the
(a) a Managing Director, who shall be the chief executive officer of the Managing
Director and
Corporation and shall be responsible for the management of the Corporation ;
Executive
and
Directors.
(b) two Executive Directors who shall discharge such duties as may be
assigned to them by the Board or the Managing Director.
(2) A person appointed as the Managing Director or an Executive Director
shall not, while holding that office, hold any other office or be a director in any
corporation, company, or any other establishment without prior approval of the
Board.
(3) The Managing Director and Executive Directors appointed under this
section shall hold office for a term of five years and may be eligible for
reappointment for a further term of five years and no more.
(4) Subject to subsection (3), the terms and conditions of service, including
remuneration and allowances of the Managing Director and Executive Directors
shall be as approved by the Board.
15.—(1) The Board shall appoint a Secretary who shall— Appointment
of Secretary
(a) be responsible to the Board through the Managing Director ; and other
staff.
(b) keep the Board's records;
(c) conduct its correspondence; and
(d) discharge such other duties as the Board or the Managing Director may
determine.
(2) The Secretary to the Board of the Corporation shall be a legal practitioner
or a member of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators of Nigeria
with a minimum of 10 years post-qualification experience.
(3) The Board may appoint such number of officers and staff as may appear
expedient and necessary to the Board for the proper and efficient conduct of the
business and functions of the Corporation.
PART III—CAPITAL AND FUNDS OF THE CORPORATION
16.—(1) The authorised capital of the Corporation shall be N50,000,000,000. Capital.
(2) On a resolution of the Board, there shall be paid up such amount as shall
be subscribed by and paid-up at par in a proportion of 60% and 40% by the
Central Bank of Nigeria and the Federal Ministry responsible for finance,
respectively.
(3) Notwithstanding the provision of subsection (1), the authorised capital
of the Corporation may be increased by such amount as the Board may by
resolution determine.
A 468 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
Deposit 17.—(1) There is established the following Deposit Insurance Funds for
Insurance each corresponding category of insured institution—
Funds.
(a) the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) for Deposit Money Banks and Mobile
Money Operators ;
(b) the Non-Interest Deposit Insurance Fund (NIDIF) for non-interest banks
and windows ;
(c) the Special Institutions Insurance Fund (SIIF) for Microfinance Banks
and Primary Mortgage Banks ;
(d) the Non-Interest Special Institutions Insurance Fund (NISIIF) for non-
interest Microfinance and Primary Mortgage Banks ; and
(e) the Payment Service Bank Insurance Fund (PSBIF) for Payment Service
Banks.
(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of subsection (1), the Corporation
may with the approval of the Board establish such additional deposit insurance
funds for such other category of insured institutions as the Board may stipulate
and a reference to deposit insurance funds in this section shall include deposit
insurance funds established under this subsection (2).
(3) The deposit insurance funds established under this section shall each be
funded up to the minimum target fund size prescribed for each category of funds
under subsection (4), from the respective sources prescribed in subsection (6).
(4) The Board shall prescribe the minimum target fund size for each of the
deposit insurance funds established under this section and the time frame within
which such minimum target fund size shall be attained :
Provided that the Board shall within such periods as the Board may determine
review and if thought fit revise the minimum target fund size.
(5) For the purpose of subsection (4), the Board shall prescribe the target
ratio for each of the deposit insurance funds by reference to the total deposits of
the corresponding category of insured institutions or such other basis as may be
determined by the Board.
(6) There shall be paid into each respective deposit insurance fund
established by or under this section—
(a) all assessed premiums payable by insured institutions within the
corresponding category of insured institutions ;
(b) all special contributions payable under section 23 (7) of this Act by
insured institutions within the corresponding category of insured institutions ;
(c) such portion of the income on investment of each deposit insurance
fund as the Board may in its exclusive discretion determine is necessary to
maintain such deposit insurance fund at its prescribed minimum target fund
size ; and
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 469
(d) such portion of the general reserves of the Corporation as the Board
may in its discretion determine is necessary to—
(i) maintain each deposit insurance fund at its minimum target fund size,
or
(ii) meet the deposit insurance payment obligation of the Corporation to
depositors of any category of insured institutions when the sum standing to
the credit of the corresponding deposit insurance fund is insufficient to meet
the deposit insurance payment obligation of the Corporation to such depositors.
(7) The deposit insurance funds established by or underthis section, shall
be managed by the Corporation in trust for depositors of the corresponding
category of insured institutions and shall be utilised with the approval of the
Board to the exclusion of any other person or authority exclusively for—
(a) meeting the deposit insurance or deposit guarantee payment obligations
of the Corporation under this Act to depositors of the corresponding category
of insured institutions in accordance with this Act, including payment to an
insured institution which assumes the deposit liability of another insured
institution ;
(b) in pursuance of sections 4 (b) and 49 of this Act, giving assistance to
insured institutions of the corresponding deposit insurance fund in an aggregate
amount not exceeding ten percent or such other percentage of the sums standing
to the credit of each such deposit insurance fund as may be prescribed by the
Board ; and
(c) all refunds of excess premium assessment or special contributions as
approved by the Board.
18.—(1) There is established for the Corporation an Operating Fund which Operating
shall consist of— Fund of the
Corporation.
(a) the capital of the Corporation provided under section 16 of this Act ;
(b) income from the investments of the Corporation other than income from
the investment of the deposit insurance funds established under section 17 of
this Act ;
(c) such portion of income from investment of the deposit insurance funds
established under section 17 of this Act which the Board has not appropriated
to the relevant deposit insurance fund under 17 (6) (c) of this Act ;
(d) money borrowed from any source with the approval of the Board ; and
(e) money from any other source as may be approved by the Board.
(2) There shall be chargeable to the Operating Fund established under
subsection (1)—
(a) all expenses, other than those stipulated under section 17 (7) of this Act,
incurred by the Corporation as approved by the Board or under such expenditure
policy approved by the Board ;
A 470 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
(b) money required for the payment of funds borrowed by the Corporation
including interest on such borrowed funds ;
(c) allowances and remuneration payable to members of the Board ;
(d) remunerations and other allowances payable to the Secretary to the Board
and other staff of the Corporation ;
(e) the cost of administration of the Corporation in accordance with the
budget approved by the Board ;
(f ) the payment for all consultancies, contracts, including mobilisation,
fluctuations, variations, legal fees and cost on contract administration as
approved by the Board or under the expenditure or procurement plan approved
by the Board ;
(g) all expenses necessary to meet capital expenditure approved by the Board
of the Corporation ;
(h) all expenses necessary to maintain any property acquired by or vested in
the Corporation ; and
(i) the payment of such other expenditure (other than those stipulated under
section 17 of this Act) necessary for the performance of the functions of the
Corporation.
(3) The Operating Fund of the Corporation shall be managed in accordance
with the rules made by the Board.
General 19.—(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any enactment, the Corporation
Reserve Fund.
shall establish a General Reserve Fund and shall, subject to subsection (2), transfer
thereto at the end of each fiscal year its net operating surplus for the year in order
to—
(a) satisfy payment obligations to depositors in the event that any deposit
insurance fund established by or under section 17 of this Act is insufficient for
that purpose ; and
(b) render assistance to insured institutions in accordance with the provisions
of this Act.
(2) Subject, to the provisions of section 17 (6) (d) of this Act and provided
that the minimum target fund size prescribed by the Board under Section 17 (4)
of this Act has been attained, where the General Reserve Fund is more than ten
times the authorised capital at the end of the year—
(a) 75% of the net operating surplus shall be transferred to the General
Reserve Fund.
(b) 50% of the remaining 25% of the net operating surplus may be applied
to reduce the annual premium payable by insured institutions and if not so
applied, shall be transferred to the General Reserve Fund, and
(c) the remaining 50% of the remaining 25% of the net operating surplus
shall be paid to the shareholders.
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 471
(3) The net operating surplus of the Corporation for each year shall be
determined after—
(a) providing for meeting the minimum target fund size for each of the
deposit insurance fund established by or under section 17 of this Act ;
(b) meeting all the current expenditure for that year ; and
(c) making such other provisions as the Board may deem fit including
depreciation of assets, contribution to staff pension and superannuation funds
and all other reasonable contingencies.
20.—(1) The Corporation shall have power to invest money not immediately Bank Account
required in Federal Government Securities or in such other securities as the Board and
Investment of
may determine.
Funds of the
Corporation.
(2) The incomes from the money invested as prescribed by subsection (1)
shall be credited to the account of the Corporation.
(3) All administrative expenses shall be defrayed out of the Operating Fund
established under section 18 of this Act.
PART IV—DEPOSIT INSURANCE SCHEME
21.—(1) All licensed banks and such other financial institutions in Nigeria Participating
licensed to engage in the business of receiving deposits shall insure their deposit financial
institutions.
liabilities with the Corporation.
(2) A licensed bank or such other deposit-taking financial institution which
contravenes the provisions of subsection (1), commits an offence and is liable on
conviction to a fine of at least—
(a) N50,000,000 and a further N5,000,000 for each day the offence is
committed, in the case of a Deposit Money Bank ; and
(b) N5,000,000 and a further N200,000 for each day the offence is committed
in the case of other deposit-taking financial institutions.
(3) A principal officer of such a licensed bank or other deposit-taking financial
institution which contravenes subsection (1), commits an offence and is liable on
conviction to a fine of at least N5,000,000 or imprisonment for three years or
both.
22. All deposits of a licensed bank or any other licensed deposit-taking Insurable
financial institution shall be insured with the Corporation and premium paid on deposit.
such deposits accordingly, with the exception of—
(a) insider deposits, that is, deposits of staff including directors of the insured
institutions ;
(b) counterclaims from a person who maintains both deposit and loan account,
the former serving as a collateral for the loan ;
A 472 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
(c) inter-bank placements ; or
(d) such other deposits as may be specified by the Board.
Assessment of 23.—(1) Every insured institution shall pay to the Corporation an annual
insured premium as assessed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
institutions
and special (2) Subject to subsection (4), the assessment of premium shall be on a risk-
contribution.
based basis by reference to total deposit liabilities standing in its books as at 31
December of the preceding year.
(3) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2), the—
(a) deposit liabilities shall be as certified by the approved auditor of the insured
institution ;
(b) certified deposit liabilities shall be forwarded to the Corporation on or
before 31 January of every year ; and
(c) annual premium shall be payable not later than two months from the date
of the demand notice.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2), and subject to the
approval of the Board, the Corporation shall have the power to vary the rate or
basis of assessment of the premium payable to the Corporation by insured
institutions or to charge an insured institution or any class of insured institutions
premium at a rate or rates as may be determined by the Board.
(5) The rate or basis of assessment of the premium payable to the Corporation
by insured institutions shall be published in the Federal Government Gazette.
(6) The premiums payable under subsections (1) and (2) shall not be
chargeable to depositors in any form.
(7) Where the funds of the Corporation are not sufficient for giving assistance
to insured institutions within the meaning of section 4 (b) of this Act or otherwise
insufficient for implementation of the public policy objectives of this Act, every
participating insured institution or any category of insured institutions may be
obliged without prejudice to subsections (1) and (2) to pay as special contribution
out of its profits before tax, a sum equal to its annual premium or such other sum
as the Board may require, not exceeding 200% of its annual premium, on such
terms and conditions as the Board may determine.
(8) Any premium payable by an insured institution and which remains unpaid
for more than three months after a demand notice had been served on such
institution, shall attract interest at a rate equivalent to the prevailing Monetary
Policy Rate (MPR) of the Central Bank of Nigeria or any other applicable rate as
may be specified by the Board.
(9) Where in the opinion of the Board the certified total deposit liabilities of
an insured institution submitted under subsection (3)(b) is materially understated,
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 473
the Corporation shall have power to reassess such total deposit liabilities and the
premium payable on it.
(10) A reassessment by the Corporation under subsection (9) shall, except
for manifest error, be final and conclusive.
(11) Where the amount of any premium payable by an insured institution is
unpaid, the unpaid amount shall be recoverable as a debt due to the Corporation.
(12) Where an insured institution is in default of premium or special
contribution, the Central Bank of Nigeria, at the written request of the Corporation,
shall in the case of—
(a) a Deposit Money Bank, debit the account of the insured institution to the
tune of the amount so unpaid and any accrued interest on it for the benefit of
the Corporation ;
(b) other deposit-taking financial institutions, cause the relevant correspondent
bank to debit the account of such institution to the tune of the amount so
unpaid and any interest on it for the benefit of the Corporation.
24. A premium due from an insured institution to the Corporation shall not Prohibition of
be reduced, adjusted, or withheld on the basis of any set-off or claim that an set-off.
insured institution may have against the Corporation.
25.—(1) In the event of the revocation of the operating license of an insured Maximum
institution or actual suspension of payment to depositors of such insured institution, claim.
a depositor shall receive from the Corporation, undersection 4(a) and in
circumstances stipulated in section 17 (7) (a) of this Act, a maximum amount of—
(a) N500,000, in the case of a depositor of an insured institution other than a
Microfinance Bank ; and
(b) N200,000, in the case of a depositor of a Microfinance Bank :
Provided that in the case of actual suspension of payment, the Corporation
shall only make payment under this section with the concurrence of the Central
Bank of Nigeria.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) and subject to the
approval of the Board, the Corporation shall have power, to vary upwards the
maximum amount which a depositor shall receive from the Corporation as provided
under subsection (1) in respect of deposits of failed insured institutions.
(3) For the purpose of subsection (1), all accounts held in the same right and
capacity in one failed insured institution shall be merged as one account.
(4) The payment of the insured sum as provided for under this section shall
be without prejudice to the liquidation dividends to be paid to the depositor once
the assets of the failed insured institution have been realised.
A 474 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
Right to set- 26. The Corporation shall have the power to set-off a loan owed by an obligor
off obligor's
of a failed or failing insured institution against the deposit of such obligor held in
deposit.
such failing or failed insured institution or any other failed insured institution in
liquidation in respect of all proven liabilities due from the obligor to the insured
institution.
Application of 27.—(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of section 26 of this Act, the
Global Corporation shall be entitled to exercise on behalf of a failed insured institution,
Standing
the rights which the failed insured institution has under the Global Standing
Instruction
Scheme and Instruction Scheme operated by the Central Bank of Nigeria under any enactment
statutory right or regulation in effect.
to funds of
obligors in (2) For the purpose of effecting the Global Standing Instruction mandate, the
insured
Corporation acting as liquidator shall have access to the Bank Verification
institutions.
Numbers of obligors in the Industry Customer Account Database, through the
Nigeria Interbank Settlement System, as well as connectivity to the Nigeria Central
Switch for and on behalf of failed insured institutions.
(3) Without prejudice to the provisions of subsections (1) and (2), and subject
to any prior encumbrances, the Corporation as liquidator of a failed insured
institution shall be entitled to deposits held in any bank account maintained by an
obligor with any other insured institution in satisfaction of any debt owed to a
failed insured institution.
(4) For the purpose of subsection (3), without recourse to the obligor, any
insured institution shall on a written demand by the Corporation made at any
time, cause the account of the specified obligor in the written demand maintained
with that insured institution to be immediately debited with the amount stated in
the written demand and cause the said amount to be immediately paid over to the
Corporation.
Payment of 28.—(1) Payments of the insured deposit in an insured institution shall be
insured made by the Corporation—
deposit.
(a) within 30 days of the Corporation becoming the liquidator of such insured
institution where the licence of that institution is revoked ; or
(b) with the concurrence of Central Bank of Nigeria, within 30 days, where
due to its insolvent status, the insured institution has suspended payment or is
otherwise unable to meet its obligation to depositors for a period of 90 days.
(2) The payment in subsection (1) shall be made by—
(a) cash ;
(b) negotiable instrument ; or
(c) making available to each depositor a transferred deposit in another insured
institution in an amount equal to the insured deposit of such depositor :
Provided that where the Corporation is—
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 475
(i) liable to make payment underthis section, it shall, at its discretion,
require proof of claim from all depositors with the insured institution, and
(ii) not satisfied as to the validity of a claim for an insured deposit, it may
require the final determination by a court of competent jurisdiction before
paying such claim.
(3) The Corporation on the payment of any depositor as provided in
subsection (1) shall be subrogated to all rights of the depositor against the
failed insured institution to the extent of such payment, and such subrogation
shall include the right on the part of the Corporation to receive the same dividends
from the proceeds of the assets of such failed insured institution and recoveries
on account of shareholder's liabilities as would have been payable to the depositor
for any uninsured portion of his deposit.
(4) The right of subrogation conferred on the Corporation under
subsection (3) and section 57 (3) (a) of this Act shall be exercisable by the
Corporation against a failed insured institution notwithstanding the restoration
of the failed insured institution's operating licence or its returning to solvency.
(5) The Corporation, if it finds that it is advisable in the interest of the
depositors or the public, shall, shall not later than 30 days after the failure of an
insured institution, appoint another insured institution to assume the insured
deposits of the failed insured institution.
29.—(1) Where the operating licence of an insured institution is revoked or Payment of
where an insured institution has suspended payment or is otherwise unable to insured
deposit
meet its obligation to depositors, the insured deposit shall become payable and
pending
the Corporation shall become obligated to pay insured deposits to the depositors action in
of such insured institutions in accordance with the provisions of sections 25 and Court.
28 of this Act :
Provided that where an insured institution has suspended payment or is
otherwise unable to meet its obligation to depositors, payment of insured deposit
shall only be made with the concurrence of the Central Bank of Nigeria.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act or any other enactment, no
restorative, prohibitive or like order shall be granted against the Corporation in
relation to payment of insured deposits to depositors of an insured institution,
and the remedy of any claimant or applicant against the Corporation in any such
action, suit or proceedings shall be limited to the amount of actual loss suffered
which shall not exceed, in the case of a—
(a) depositor, the maximum insured deposit ;
(b) shareholder, the nominal value of the shares of the shareholder in the
insured institution ; or
(c) group of shareholders, the nominal value of the aggregate of the shares of
the shareholders in the insured institution.
A 476 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
Power to 30.—(1) The Corporation shall have power to withhold, pending the
withhold determination of culpability or otherwise by a tribunal or court of competent
deposits on
jurisdiction, the payment of insured and uninsured deposit claims obtained through
discharge of
the or being used in connection with or held in furtherance of criminal activities or
Corporation. where it is satisfied that the depositor had connived with or in any way assisted
officials of the failed insured institution or had been a party to or had knowingly
benefited from the circumstances which gave rise to the failure of an insured
institution.
(2) The Corporation may withhold payment of such portion of the insured
deposit of any depositor in a failed insured institution as may be required to
provide for the payment of any liability of such depositor to the failed insured
institution or its liquidator or receiver, pending the determination and payment of
such liability by such depositor or any other person liable.
(3) Payment of an insured deposit to any person by the Corporation shall
discharge the Corporation, and payment of a transferred deposit to any person by
an insured institution in which a transferred deposit has been made available
shall discharge the Corporation and such other insured institution, to the same
extent that payment to such person by the failed insured institution would have
discharged it from liability from the insured institution.
(4) Where, after the Corporation has given at least three months notice to pay
to every depositor by mailing a copy to his last known address appearing in the
records of the failed insured institution, or publishing a general notice in at least
two national dailies and two electronic media houses with national coverage,
notifying insured depositors of the particular failed insured institution of the dates
and venue for payment, and any depositor of the failed insured institution who -
(a) fails to claim his insured deposit from the Corporation within six years
after the notice of the Corporation has been sent to the depositor or the notice
of payment to the depositors is published in two national dailies and electronic
media houses, shall forfeit such sums to the Corporation ; or
(b) fails within such period to claim or arrange to continue the transferred
deposit with the new insured institution, all the rights of the depositor against
the failed insured institution or its shareholders or the receivership estate to
which the Corporation may have become subrogated shall revert to the
Corporation.
(5) The amount of any transferred deposit not claimed within the period stated
in subsection (4) (b) shall be refunded to the Corporation.
(6) A court proceeding shall not be commenced against the Corporation in
respect of the obligation of the Corporation to make any payment in relation to
any deposit held by any person in any failed insured institution after the expiry of
the period stipulated in subsection (4).
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 477
31.—(1) The Corporation may after payment of insured deposits make interim Interim
dividend
dividend payments from proceeds of realised assets of the failed insured institution.
payment.
(2) The Corporation may only make advance payments of interim dividend
otherwise than out of proceeds of realised assets, to depositors of failed insured
institutions that comply with the following conditions—
(a) the net realisable value of the assets of the failed insured institution can
be reasonably estimated ;
(b) the estimated amount of the advance payment and the interest at a rate to
be determined by the Corporation but in any event not more than the prevailing
Monetary Policy Rate can be fully reimbursed by the estimated net realisable
value of the assets ;
(c) the failed insured institution has no incidents of significant embezzlement
or other significant fraud or other abuses whose losses are difficult to
determine ; and
(d) the amount of the advance payment to be made by the Corporation shall
not exceed 30% of the total excess uninsured deposit claims of any failed
insured institution.
PART V—TERMINATION OF INSURED STATUS
32.—(1) Whenever it appears to the Corporation that an insured institution Grievous
or its directors or officers have committed a grievous violation of its obligation violation of
obligations.
under this Act or have continued to conduct the business of the insured institution—
(a) in an unsound manner ; or
(b) in a manner that intentionally or negligently permits any of the officers or
agents of the insured institution to violate any provisions of any law or regulation
to which an insured institution is subject,
the Corporation may serve on the Board of the insured institution a warning
notice stating that where the unsound practice or violation continues, the name
of the insured institution may be removed from the register of insured
institutions.
(2) A copy of the warning notice issued under subsection (1) shall be forwarded
to the Central Bank of Nigeria.
(3) It shall be deemed a grievous violation of obligation under this Act where
an insured institution—
(a) persistently suffers liquidity deficiency ;
(b) persistently contravenes the provisions of any legislation or regulation
relating to banking, economic and financial crimes ;
(c) makes incomplete or incorrect statements to the Corporation ;
(d) is in default of its annual premium payment or special contribution as
provided in section 23 of this Act ;
A 478 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
(e) habitually fails to render returns to the Corporation as required under this
Act or does not submit on request any other information for the efficient
performance of the function of the Corporation ;
(f ) makes incorrect statement to the Corporation as regards customers' deposits
it has insured ;
(g) fails to make adequate provisions for bad and doubtful debts up to the
amount recommended by the Central Bank of Nigeria ; or
(h) fails to write off bad debts as may be recommended by the Central Bank
of Nigeria.
(4) Where despite being served with a warning notice under subsection (1),
in the opinion of the Board, the unsound practice continues unabated, the
Corporation, with the concurrence of the Central Bank of Nigeria and subject to
the provisions of section 33 of this Act, may terminate the insured status of such
insured institution.
Conditions for 33.—(1) Where the insured institution fails within a reasonable time to make
termination of amends after it has been served with a warning notice under section 32 of this
insured status.
Act, the Board shall—
(a) give to the institution at least 30 days written notice of its intention to
terminate the insured status of the institution ; and
(b) fix a time and place of hearing before a person designated by the Board to
conduct the hearing at which evidence may be produced, and upon such
evidence, the Board shall make its findings which shall be final.
(2) Where the insured institution is not represented or does not make any
representation to the Corporation under subsection (1) (b), or if the Corporation
does not favourably consider such representation made, the Corporation with the
concurrence of the Central Bank of Nigeria may proceed to terminate the insured
status of the institution.
Procedure 34.—(1) Where the participation of an insured institution in the Deposit
upon
Insurance Scheme is terminated, the Corporation shall immediately cause a notice
termination of
insured status. of such termination to be published in the Federal Government Gazette and at
least three newspapers with nationwide circulation, to the depositors and other
creditors to whom liabilities are owed and bring the consequences of such
termination to their notice.
(2) After the termination of the status of an insured institution under this
Act, the insured deposits of each depositor in the institution on the date of its
termination, less all subsequent withdrawals from the deposits of such depositor,
shall continue to be covered for another period of one year, and thereafter, such
deposits shall cease to be covered.
(3) The Corporation shall not insure any addition to any deposit specified in
subsection (2) or any new deposit in the institution made after the date of
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 479
termination of its status as an insured institution and the institution shall not
advertise for deposits or hold itself out as having its deposits insured by the
Corporation.
(4) The Central Bank of Nigeria may revoke the licence of any insured
institution whose insured status has been terminated by the Corporation.
35. An insured institution whose insured status is terminated in accordance Conditions for
with this Act but whose licence has not been revoked by the Central Bank of participation
after
Nigeria may re-apply to participate in the scheme after it has satisfied all the
termination of
conditions required of it by the Board particularly after the Board had given insured status.
consideration to the—
(a) institution's financial position and its general operational practice has
improved satisfactorily since the termination order became effective ;
(b) grounds for which the institution's participation in the Deposit Insurance
Scheme was terminated have been remedied ; and
(c) future earnings prospects and general character of its management are
satisfactory.
PART VI—SUPERVISION OF INSURED INSTITUTIONS
36.—(1) Every insured institution shall submit to the Corporation such returns Power of the
and information as may be required for the proper performance of the functions Corporation to
require
of the Corporation within the stipulated period.
information.
(2) Any insured institution which fails to comply with the provisions of
subsection (1),commits an offence under this Act and isliable on conviction to a
fine of at least N1,000,000 and thereafter N250,000 for each day the offence
continues, counting from the day immediately after the date of failure to make
such return.
(3) In addition to the powers conferred on it under this Act, the Corporation,
for the attainment of its public policy objectives or the performance of its functions,
may require persons having access, at all reasonable times to supply to it
information, in such form as the Corporation may direct, relating to, or touching
on or concerning matters affecting the interest of depositors of insured institutions.
(4) Where a person lawfully required to supply information necessary to
achieve the public policy objectives and functions of the Corporation—
(a) supplies any information which he knows to be false or supplies it
recklessly as to its truth or falsity ; or
(b) without reasonable excuse, fails to supply any information required by
the Corporation,
the person commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not more
than N1,000,000 and in the case of contravention of subsection (4)(b), an
A 480 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
additional fine of at least N250,000 for each day the offence continues, starting
from the day immediately after the date of failure to supply such information.
Investigation 37.—(1) The Corporation under the auspices of Financial Services Regulation
in respect of and Coordinating Committee (FSRCC) may obtain information from the relevant
related entities
sector regulator regarding the activities of a regulated entity under its purview
of insured
institutions. relating to transactions with an insured institution.
(2) Any holding company of any insured institution, any subsidiary, or affiliate
or associated company of any insured institution, or any director or officer of any
such holding company, subsidiary, affiliate or associated company, that provides
information that is false, misleading, inaccurate, or incomplete, or that fails to
comply with any requirement to provide information under this Act, commits an
offence and is liable on conviction, in the case of—
(a) a corporate body, to a fine of at least N100,000,000 ; and
(b) an individual, to imprisonment for a term of at least five years.
(3) Where an insured institution is deemed to be threatened with insolvency
on the basis of data submitted under subsection (1), the Corporation may under
the auspices of the FSRCC investigate the business and the financial status of the
subsidiaries, affiliates and associated companies of the insured institution.
(4) The Corporation may require any person, depositor, customer, creditor or
organisation which had a transaction with or related to a failing or failed insured
institution to provide information on such transaction to determine whether or
not such transaction contributed to the insolvency or failure of the insured
institution.
Appointment, 38.—(1) The Managing Director shall, for the purpose of attaining the public
powers and policy objectives or proper performance of the functions of the Corporation, have
functions of
power to appoint such number of examiners who shall be officers of the
examiners.
Corporation.
(2) The examiners appointed under subsection (1) shall have—
(a) power to examine periodically, and under conditions of secrecy, the books
and affairs of every insured institution ;
(b) a right of access at all times to the books, accounts and vouchers of the
insured institution including its management information system ;
(c) power to require and obtain information and explanations from the officers,
directors and auditors of an insured institution as they may deem necessary in
the discharge of their duties ; and
(d) access to accounts, returns and information with respect to any insured
institution under the provisions of this Act, which are in the possession of the
Central Bank of Nigeria.
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 481
(3) In the exercise of the powers and performance of the functions under
subsection (2), an examiner shall exercise reasonable care to prevent unreasonable
hindrance to the activities of an insured institution and confine the investigation
to matters of fact and data deemed necessary for the examination.
(4) Subject to subsection (5), the Corporation and the Central Bank of Nigeria
may develop a framework for the purpose of streamlining the conduct and
minimising the disruptive effect of examinations.
(5) The supervision and examination of insured institutions by the Corporation
under this section and sections 39 and 40 of this Act shall be subject to the
concurrence of the Central Bank of Nigeria.
(6) An examiner shall forward a written report of his findings to the Managing
Director of the Corporation who shall inform the Board of any circumstances in
which the Corporation shall notify, and may make appropriate recommendations
to the Central Bank of Nigeria under the provisions of sections 32, 33, and 43 of
this Act.
39.—(1) An insured institution shall produce to the examiner as and when Duties of
required, all books, accounts, documents, management information systems and insured
institutions in
all information as the examiner may deem necessary or request in the performance
relation to
of his functions.
examination.
(2) Any insured institution, its director or officer that—
(a) wilfully refuses to produce any book, account, document or such other
information,
(b) negligently, willfully or with intent to defraud, gives information which
is false in any material particular, or
(c) refuses examiners access to their premises or any hardware or software
utilised in its business,
commits an offence.
(3) A person who commits an offence under this section shall be liable on
conviction—
(a) in the case of an individual who commits an offence under subsection
(2)(a), to a fine of N100,000 for every day that he withholds the information,
document, book or account and in the case of an insured institution to a fine
not more than N1,000,000 for every day that the said information, document,
or book of account was withheld ; or
(b) for an offence under subsection (2)(b)—
(i) to a fine not more than N10,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of
three years or both, in the case of an individual, and
(ii) to a fine of N50,000,000 in the case of a Deposit Money Bank and
N10,000,000 for other deposit-taking financial institutions.
A 482 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
Special 40.—(1) The Executive Management of the Corporation may at any time
examination. appoint two or more qualified persons to conduct a special examination or
investigation of the books and affairs of an insured institution under conditions
of secrecy where the Executive Management of the Corporation is of the opinion
that an insured institution may—
(a) be carrying on business in a manner detrimental to the interest of its
depositors and creditors ;
(b) have insufficient assets to cover its liabilities to the public ; or
(c) be contravening the provisions of this Act.
(2) An examiner appointed to conduct a special examination under
subsection (1) shall forward a written report of his findings to the Managing
Director of the Corporation who shall inform the Board of any circumstances
in which the Corporation shall notify, and may make appropriate
recommendations to the Central Bank of Nigeria under the provisions of sections
32, 33, and 43 of this Act.
(3) Where an insured institution deems that it is—
(a) likely to become unable to meet its obligations ; or
(b) about to suspend payments,
the insured institution shall immediately notify the Corporation.
(4) Any insured institution which contravenes the provisions of subsection (3),
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of—
(a) N50,000,000 in the case of a Deposit Money Bank ; and
(b) N10,000,000, in the case of other deposit-taking financial institutions.
(5) Any director whose responsibility it was to inform the Corporation shall
be personally liable to a fine of N5,000,000 in addition to any other sanction that
may be imposed on such director.
Report of 41.—(1) After the conclusion of any examination under the provisions of
examination.
this Act, the Corporation shall—
(a) present the written report together with its recommendations to the board
of directors of the insured institution at a meeting specially convened for that
purpose within such time as the Corporation may direct ; or
(b) forward a copy of such report to the Chairman and the Managing Director
of the insured institution concerned with instruction that it be presented by the
management of that institution to their board of directors at a meeting specially
convened within one month of receiving the report for the purpose of considering
the report and implementing the recommendations contained in it.
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 483
(2) The insured institution shall within two weeks of the presentation to its
board of directors convey to the Corporation the reaction of the board of directors
to the written report and proposals for implementation of the recommendations.
(3) Where an insured institution fails to implement the recommendations
contained in the written report of examination after it had been warned by the
Corporation, the Corporation shall notify, and may make appropriate
recommendations to, the Central Bank of Nigeria under the provisions of sections
32, 33 and 43 of this Act.
(4) Any written examination report, including working papers, appendices
or any extract from it, prepared and certified by the Corporation or by the Central
Bank of Nigeria, indicating that a person is indebted to a failing or failed insured
institution shall be prima facie proof of such indebtedness.
42. Every report of examination of an insured institution issued by the Confidentiality
Corporation shall be kept confidential, and no person or authority shall have of
examination
right of access or production of such report under any law except the insured
report.
institution, the Corporation or the Central Bank of Nigeria, provided that—
(a) a superior court of record may order the production of the relevant extracts
of the report certified as a true copy by the Secretary to the Board of the
Corporation, in proceedings before that court held in chambers or under
conditions of secrecy and confidentiality ;
(b) the Corporation may at its discretion tender the report in court in
proceedings held in chambers or under conditions of confidentiality ; or
(c) where the insured institution has failed, or its licence has been revoked,
the report of examination can be tendered in open court.
43. Without prejudice to the provisions of this Act, where the examination Recommenda-
by the Corporation of any insured institution discloses, or the Corporation tion to Central
Bank of
otherwise becomes aware, that an insured institution or its directors or staff have
Nigeria on
violated or are violating any provisions of any law or regulation to which the violations.
insured institution is subject, or have engaged, are engaging or are about to engage
in unsafe and unsound practices in conducting the business of the institution, the
Corporation shall promptly notify the Central Bank of Nigeria of such violation
and may make appropriate recommendations.
PART VII—DUTIES OF INSURED INSTITUTIONS
44. All insured institutions shall have fidelity insurance coverage up to such Fidelity
insurance.
level as may be prescribed by the Corporation.
45.—(1) The members of board, staff and agents of an insured institution Obligations in
shall keep strictly confidential and make no unauthorised disclosure or use of respect of
unauthorised
any information in relation to the activities or condition of an insured institution
disclosure.
or in relation to its customers which they may either directly or indirectly receive
A 484 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
in such capacity, even after they cease to be members or staff or agents of that
insured institution.
(2) The obligation specified in subsection (1) is imposed on members of the
Board and employees of, and agents or other persons engaged by, the Corporation.
(3) The provision of subsection (1) shall not apply to communications made
to the Corporation, the Central Bank of Nigeria, external auditors of the insured
institution, the Bankers' Committee, or the Federal Ministry responsible forfinance
in connection with the functions of the Corporation.
(4) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply to communications made
to the Corporation in connection with the admission or exclusion of an insured
institution from a deposit insurance fund established by or underthe provisions of
this Act.
(5) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1), commits an
offence and is liable on conviction a fine of N5,000,000 or imprisonment for a
term not more than three years or both.
Returns on 46. An insured institution shall render to the Corporation, monthly returns
frauds and
of frauds, forgeries or outright theft occurring during such month and shall include
forgeries.
a detailed report of such events.
Notification to 47.—(1) An insured institution shall notify the Corporation of any staff
the
dismissed, terminated or advised to retire or resign on the ground of fraud, forgery
corporation of
dismissed or financial malpractice.
staff and
employment (2) The persons affected under subsection (1) shall not be employed in an
of dismissed insured institution.
staff.
(3) Any insured institution which acts in contravention of this section, commits
an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least N5,000,000 and an
additional N100,000 for each day during which the contravention continues.
(4) Where an insured institution contravenes this section with the knowledge
or connivance of any director, manager, secretary or any other officer of the insured
institution, such an officer commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a
fine of at least N2,000,000.
(5) Any contract of employment or similar agreement entered into in
contravention of subsection (2) shall be void and the insured institution shall
immediately dispense with the service of such person.
Foreclosure of 48. Notwithstanding the provisions of any law or contract or deed to the
mortgages. contrary where an obligor fails, neglects or refuses to repay a debt owed to a
failing or failed insured institution that is secured by a legal or equitable mortgage,
the Corporation shall have power to take possession of, manage, foreclose, sell,
transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of the property, in full or partial satisfaction
of the debt owed to the failing or failed insured institution subject to the right or
interest of other secured creditors.
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 485
PART VIII—FAILURE RESOLUTION OF INSURED INSTITUTIONS
49.—(1) The Corporation shall, under section 4 (b) of this Act, at the request Financial
of an insured institution or the Central Bank of Nigeria, under such conditions as assistance.
may be specified by the Corporation, and upon notice to the Central Bank of
Nigeria in the case of a request by an insured institution, assist the insured
institution if the Corporation determines that—
(a) the insured institution has difficulty meeting its obligations to its depositors
and other creditors ;
(b) the insured institution persistently suffers liquidity deficiency ;
(c) the insured institution has accumulated losses which have nearly or
completely eroded the shareholders' fund ; or
(d) such assistance is required to prevent the insured institution from failing.
(2) The Corporation may take one or a combination of any of the following
actions to provide liquidity support to assist an insured institution—
(a) accept an accommodation bill with interest for a period not more than 90
days maturity exclusive of days of grace and subject to renewal not more than
seven times ;
(b) purchase or invite eligible investors to purchase the equity and or such
assets and or assume any such liabilities of the insured institution ;
(c) issue bonds, certificates, debentures, debt instruments and other securities to
purchase or assume such assets, equity or liabilities of the insured institution ;
(d) take or carry out any other measure to provide financial assistance to the
insured institution :
Provided that interest rates that may be applicable to facilities extended to
insured institutions under this section shall not exceed the Monetary Policy
Rate of the Central Bank of Nigeria.
(3) The conditions to be specified by the Corporation under subsection (1),
other than as to tenor and interest, shall be with the concurrence of the Central
Bank of Nigeria.
50.—(1) The Corporation, with the concurrence of or at the request of the Technical
Central Bank of Nigeria, may— assistance.
(a) assume control of a failing insured institution and take over its
management ;
(b) appoint new management for the insured institution,
(c) remove, replace or change principal officers of the insured institution ;
(d) replace the principal officers of the insured institution with officials of
the Corporation ;
A 486 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
(e) impose holding actions, direct the insured institution and its directors to
carry out specified actions or refrain from doing certain actions ;
(f ) carry out organisational and operational changes including, without
limitation, staff rationalisation, requiring shareholders to recapitalise the bank,
shutting down of some branches, sale of subsidiaries or other business units,
downsizing, rightsizing, appointment of consultants, writing off certain assets,
applying debt to equity swaps, consideration of certain securities and
instruments as capital, and employment of bail-in measures, write down of
capital and restructuring of the business of the insured institution ;
(g) take such action as may be—
(i) necessary to restore the failing insured institution to a sound and solvent
condition, and
(ii) appropriate to carry on the business of the failing insured institution
and preserve and conserve its assets and properties ;
(h) acquire, manage and dispose of impaired assets of failing insured
institutions, either directly or through an asset management company
established by the Corporation, and failing insured institutions shall, at the
request of the Corporation, be obliged to offer such impaired assets for sale to
the Corporation or the asset management company ; and
(i) take any other measures to restructure the insured institution.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1)(h), the Corporation, with the concurrence
of the Central Bank of Nigeria, may make rules, regulations and guidelines for
designating assets of failing insured institutions as impaired assets, regulating
the regime for valuation and acquisition of such impaired assets by the Corporation
or an asset management company established by the Corporation for that purpose,
and regulating the regime for the administration, realisation, management and
disposal of such acquired impaired assets.
(3) The provisions of sections 26, 27, 63, 64, 66, 67, 68 and 69 of this Act
shall apply mutatis mutandis to debts owed to the Corporation or to an asset
management company established by the Corporation by reason of the acquisition
of impaired assets undersubsection (1) (h).
Mergers and 51. The Corporation, with the concurrence or at the request of the Central
acquisitions. Bank of Nigeria, may—
(a) merge, facilitate or induce a merger of a failing or failed insured institution
with another healthy insured institution ;
(b) facilitate or induce the acquisition of a failing or failed insured institution
by another healthy insured institution ;
(c) restructure an insured institution through acquisition, management and
disposal of all or part of the equity or the assets or the liabilities of the failing
or failed insured institution either directly, indirectly through or by another
insured institution or an asset management company.
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 487
52. The Corporation, with the concurrence or at the request of the Central Purchase and
Bank of Nigeria, may undertake a purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities assumption.
transaction with respect to a failing or failed insured institution as follows—
(a) the Corporation shall have power to charge, dispose, transfer or alienate
all or some of the assets of a failing or failed institution to a healthy insured
institution ;
(b) the Corporation may advance to or receive from the assuming institution
an amount equal to the difference between the assumed liabilities and the
transferred or purchased assets ;
(c) the assets of the failing or failed insured institution shall be transferred or
purchased by a healthy insured institution in consideration of the assumption
of all or some of the liabilities of the failing or failed insured institution ;
(d) the Corporation may receive such assets from the failing or failed insured
institution as collateral for any advance to the assuming institution or purchase
the assets from the failing or failed insured institution and any asset (including
land) of the failing or failed institution shall be transferred or be vested in the
assuming institution or the Corporation.
53.—(1) The Corporation, with the concurrence or at the request of the Central Acquisition of
Bank of Nigeria, may acquire a failing or failed insured institution whose paid up insured
institution
capital is lost or unrepresented by available assets for a nominal consideration of one
whose capital
naira only by an Order published in the Federal Government Gazette. is lost.
(2) The acquired insured institution shall from the date stated in the Federal
Government Gazette belong to the Corporation which shall hold same in trust for
the depositors and other creditors of the insured institution.
(3) The Corporation may restructure the acquired institution for sale to suitable
investors or wind up and liquidate the insured institution.
(4) The Corporation may take such other measures that are reasonably
necessary for resolution of an acquired insured institution.
54.—(1) The Corporation, with the concurrence of the Central Bank of Bridge banks
Nigeria, may organise and incorporate, and the Central Bank of Nigeria shall
issue a banking licence to one or more banks, to be referred to as bridge banks
which shall be insured institutions to assume such deposits or liabilities, and
shall purchase such assets of a failing insured institution and perform any other
function or business as the Corporation may determine.
(2) The Corporation shall appoint, remove and fix the remuneration of the
board of directors and management of such bridge bank.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act, Act No. 3,
the Central Bank of Nigeria Act, the Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act, 2020.
Act No. 7,
or any other law, the bridge bank shall not be subject to any requirement relating
2007.
to issued or paid-up capital, and the Corporation may make available to the bridge Act No. 5,
2020.
A 488 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
bank, upon such terms and conditions, and in such form and amounts, as the
Corporation may determine, funds for the operation of the bridge bank.
(4) The Central Bank of Nigeria, the Corporate Affairs Commission, the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Nigerian Exchange Group, the Federal
Inland Revenue Service and any other regulatory or supervisory authorities shall,
at the request of the Corporation, grant to a bridge bank forbearance, exemptions
and waivers in respect of any fees howsoever described (including incorporation,
licensing and registration fees), and all levies, duties, taxes or other imposts.
(5) The operation of a bridge bank shall, unless extended as provided,
terminate at the end of two years from the date it was issued licence and the
Corporation may in its discretion extend the period of operation of a bridge bank
for a maximum of three additional one-year periods.
(6) The status of a bridge bank shall terminate upon the earliest of the—
(a) merger or consolidation of the bridge bank with an insured institution
that is not a bridge bank ;
(b) sale of a majority of the equity of the bridge bank to any person other than
the Corporation and another bridge bank ;
(c) assumption of all or substantially all deposit and other liabilities or the
acquisition of all or substantially all the assets of the bridge bank by an insured
institution that is not a bridge bank ; or
(d) expiration of the period provided in subsection (5) or the earlier dissolution
of the bridge bank by the Corporation before the expiration of the time provided
or as extended by the Corporation under this Act.
(7) The Corporation shall be appointed liquidator of a bridge bank whose
status has been terminated.
(8) Following the merger or consolidation or sale of the equity or assumption
of the deposits or acquisition of the assets of the bridge bank as provided in
subsection (6), the resulting entity shall for all purposes be an insured institution.
PART IX—LIQUIDATION OF INSURED INSTITUTIONS
Appointment 55.—(1) Whenever the licence of an insured institution is revoked by the
as liquidator. Central Bank of Nigeria,in the case of—
(a) an insured institution that is a bank, the Corporation shall act as liquidator
of such insured institution with effect from the date of revocation of the licence
of such insured institution ; or
(b) any other financial institution, the Central Bank of Nigeria may by notice
published in the Federal Government Gazette, appoint the Corporation as the
liquidator of such failed insured institution.
(2) The Corporation as liquidator undersubsection (1) (a) or (b),shall have
all powers of a liquidator specified under this Act and such other powers of a
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 489
liquidator under the Companies and Allied Matters Act, and shall be deemed to Act No. 3,
have been appointed by the court as a provisional liquidator by the Federal High 2020.
Court within the meaning and intendment of that Act :
Provided that in the case of any conflict on the powers conferred on the
Corporation as liquidator in this Act and the powers conferred in the Companies
and Allied Matters Act, 2020, the powers conferred in this Act shall prevail.
(3) An insured institution shall give at least seven days notice to the
Corporation and the Central Bank of Nigeria of any meeting of the insured
institution in which it is proposed to consider a resolution for voluntary winding-
up of that institution and any director or officer of an insured institution who fails
to ensure compliance with this provision, commits an offence and is liable on
conviction to a fine of N5,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of six months or
both.
(4) Notwithstanding the fact that the license of an insured institution has not
been revoked, where an insured institution commences voluntary winding up,
the Corporation, where it reasonably believes that the protection of the interest of
depositors so requires, and with the concurrence of Central Bank of Nigeria, may
take over the winding up of such insured institution and act as the liquidator of
such insured institution in accordance with the powers of the Corporation under
this Act.
56.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), the provisions of Chapter 21 of the Inapplicability
Companies and Allied Matters Act, or any amendment or replacement to it, and of Chapter 21
of the
the Companies winding up rules made under it shall not apply to the winding up
Companies
of insured institutions. and Allied
Matters Act
(2) The Chief Judge of the Federal High Court shall issue or cause to be and winding
issued winding up rules for the expedited and accelerated winding up of failed up rules.
insured institutions and insured institutions that commence voluntary winding up
Act No. 3,
and matters relating to it including provisional powers of the liquidator pending 2020.
the making of the winding up order.
(3) Immediately following the publication in the Federal Government Gazette
of the revocation of the licence of an insured institution, where such insured
institution is a bank, and in other cases, immediately following the publication in
the Federal Government Gazette of the appointment of the Corporation as the
liquidator of any other category of insured institution under section 62 (4) of the
Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act, the Corporation shall apply to the Act No. 5,
Federal High Court for an order to wind up the affairs of such failed insured 2020.
institution in respect of which it is a liquidator.
(4) The Corporation shall have and exercise all the powers, benefits and
authority conferred on a liquidator or any company in liquidation and shall have
power to apply to the Court for any relief or order which a liquidator or any Act No. 3,
company in liquidation may obtain under the Companies and Allied Matters Act, 2020.
A 490 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
and such application shall be made with such modifications as to form and content as
are stipulated under this Act or in the winding up rules issued under subsection (2).
Action 57.—(1) The Corporation shall cause notice to be given by advertisement in
following a
print and electronic media requiring all depositors of the insured institution facing
failure.
liquidation to forward their claims to the Corporation.
(2) The Corporation acting as liquidator of a failed institution shall have
power to—
(a) realise the assets of the failed insured institution ; and
(b) enforce the individual liability of the shareholders and directors in
accordance with section 76 of this Act.
(3) The Corporation acting as liquidator—
(a) shall pay to the Corporation such portion of the amount realised from
such liquidation as it shall be entitled to receive on account of its subrogation
to the claims of depositors and shall pay to depositors and other creditors the
net amount available for distribution to them ;
(b) may pay dividends on proved claims at any time after the expiration of
the period of advertisement made under subsection (1) and no liability shall
attach to the Corporation itself by reason of such payment or for failure to pay
dividend to a claimant whose claim is not proved.
(4) Every judgment debt against an insured institution under liquidation or
the Corporation as liquidator of an insured institution which is not subject to an
appeal shall be filed with the liquidator as an unsecured creditor claim which
shall be admitted to proof in accordance with the rules and regulations governing
administration of claims payment issued by the Corporation.
(5) Where a depositor of an insured institution is also a judgment creditor in
respect of that deposit, such depositor shall elect to file his claim either as a
depositor or as a creditor but where he submits a certified true copy of the judgment
evidencing the judgment debt, he shall be deemed to have elected to file his
claim as a judgment debtor and not a depositor.
(6) The interest applicable on any judgment debt against an insured institution
under liquidation as stated in the judgment which is filed as proof of claim with
the Corporation as liquidator of such institution shall cease to be applicable from
the date the Corporation commenced liquidation of such insured institution.
Power to 58.The Corporation may, when acting as liquidator of a failed insured
appoint
institution or an insured institution that has commenced voluntary winding up,
agents.
appoint an agent to assist it in the performance of its duties, and all fees,
compensation and expenses of liquidation and administration thereof shall be
fixed and paid by the Corporation from therealised assets of the failed institution.
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 491
59.—(1) Where the Corporation has in its possession or custody any collateral Right of
or security pledged by an obligor who is indebted to more than one failed insured disposal of
collateral.
institution, the Corporation shall have the right to dispose of such collateral or
security and apply the proceeds of the sale for the repayment of any of the obligor's
loan facilities other than that to which the collateral or security relates, whether
or not the facility to which the collateral or security relates has been repaid :
Provided that the right of the Corporation under this section shall only accrue
where the obligor fails to repay such other loan facility 21 days after a letter of
demand from the Corporation.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act or any other enactment, where
the Court determines that the disposal under subsection (1) was in error or done
in bad faith, no restorative, prohibitive or like order shall be granted against the
Corporation in respect of the disposal of such collateral or security by the
Corporation, and the remedy of any claimant or applicant against the Corporation
in such an action, suit or proceedings shall be limited to damages not exceeding
the value of the collateral.
(3) The rights of the Corporation under subsection (1) and (2) shall be subject
to the right of secured creditors with a security interest in the asset or property
which ranks equally or in priority to that held by the Corporation.
60. For the purpose of this Act, and without prejudice to section 625 of the Closure of
Companies and Allied Matters Act requiring statutory declaration of insolvency failed insured
institutions.
by a company under voluntary winding-up, an insured institution shall be deemed
to have been closed on account of inability to meet the demands of its depositors Act No. 3,
in any case in which it has been closed for the purpose of liquidation without 2020.
adequate provision being made to the satisfaction of the Corporation for payment
of its depositors.
61. The provisions of the Limitation Law of a State or the Limitation Act of Limitation law
the Federal Capital Territory shall not apply to any debt owed to a failing or a not applicable.
failed insured institution or to any civil action instituted by the Corporation against Cap. 522
Laws of FCT.
any person in respect of a failed or failing insured institution.
62.—(1) The Corporation as liquidator of an insured institution shall have Power of the
Corporation as
power to—
liquidator.
(a) wind-up and liquidate the failed insured institution in an orderly manner ;
(b) bring or defend any action or other legal proceedings in the name of such
failed insured institution with the addition of the phrase ''in-liquidation" after
the name of such failed insured institution or in the name of the Corporation
disclosing on the face of the process that it is the liquidator of the insured
institution ;
(c) carry on the business of such failed insured institution so far as may be
necessary for its beneficial winding up ;
A 492 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
(d) sell the property of the failed insured institution of whatever nature by
public auction or private contract with power to transfer the whole of it to any
person or to sell same in parcels ;
(e) enter into any agreement for the purchase of all or some of the assets and
the assumption of all or some of the liabilities of the failed insured institution ;
(f ) exercise any of the powers and authorities conferred on the Corporation
and discharge any of the obligations to be discharged, under this Act ;
(g) make such other dispositions of any matter concerning such failed insured
institution as the Corporation determines it is in the best interest of the depositors
of such insured institution and the Corporation ;
(h) by operation of law succeed to all rights, titles, powers and privileges of
the insured institution, and of any shareholder, depositor, officer, account holder
or director of such institution with respect to the institution and the assets of
the institution but shall not be held personally liable for the debts or liabilities
of such institution ;
(i) compromise debts and liabilities capable of resulting in debts, all claims,
present or future, certain or contingent and in particular grant concession or
interest waiver to a debtor of a failing or failed insured institution on such
terms as may be agreed, and take any security for the discharge of any such
call, debt, liability or claims and give a complete discharge in respect of it ;
(j) take over, manage and dispose of, the assets of and operate the insured
institution with all the powers of the members or shareholders, the directors
and the officers of the institution and conduct all business of the institution,
and collect all obligations and money due to the institution, perform all functions
of the institution in the name of the institution which is consistent with the
appointment as liquidator ;
(k) pay all valid obligations of the failed insured institution in accordance
with the provisions of this Act and any guidelines and prescriptions issued by
the Corporation regulating procedures for filing, settling, determination,
disallowance, proof, priority, and payment of claims including administrative
review ;
(l) act as or appoint any person as receiver for an obligor with respect to
loans, advances or other credit facility granted by the failed insured institution
whether or not the assets of the obligor have been charged, mortgaged or
pledged as security for such credit facility and the receiver shall have all the
Act No. 3, powers of a receiver as stipulated in the Companies and Allied Matters Act ;
2020.
(m) offer for sale to an asset management firm or any other persons the loans
and other risk assets of a failed insured institution and may accept any bond or
other instruments as consideration for the sale of any such assets ;
(n) publish in the media the names of the debtors of a failed insured institution
as disclosed in the records of the insured institution, and no liability shall
attach to the Corporation or the media firm as a result of such publication ;
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 493
(o) by order published in the Federal Government Gazette direct that all or
any part of the property of whatever title or description belonging to the failed
insured institution or purchased with funds belonging to the failed insured
institution or held by trustees on its behalf or held in the name of any other
person instead of the failed insured institution shall vest in the Corporation as
liquidator in its official name and the property to which the order relates shall
vest accordingly and shall be registered under the relevant titles deeds registration
enactment in favourof the Corporation as liquidator and the Corporation as
liquidator may bring or defend in its official name any action or other legal
proceedings which relates to that property for the purpose of effectually winding
up the failed insured institution and recovering the property but shall not suffer
any liability in its corporate capacity by virtue of such order.
(2) Notwithstanding any provision contained in any other law, the Corporation
shall have power to recover, at any time, interest on a debt owed to a failed
insured institution and such interest shall continue to accrue after the liquidation
of the failed insured institution.
(3) The Corporation as liquidator shall not be under any duty to make any
returns to the Corporate Affairs Commission as provided by the Companies and
Allied Matters Act, but may provide such information as may be requested by the Act No. 3,
Commission if it determines it is expedient to do so in the interest of depositors 2020.
of the failed insured institution.
63.—(1) Where the Corporation has reasonable cause to believe that an Power to take
interim
obligor is the bona fide owner of any movable or immovable property, it may
custody.
apply to the Court, before or at the time of filing of an action for debt recovery or
other like action or at any time after the filing of an action, and before or after the
service of the originating process by which such action is commenced on the
obligor, by motion ex-parte for an interlocutory order granting possession of the
property to the Corporation pending the hearing and determination of the debt
recovery or other action to abide by the decision in such action.
(2) The Corporation shall serve on the obligor a certified true copy of the
order of the Court issued under subsection (1).
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any enactment, an order made
under subsection (1) shall subsist till judgement or final determination of the
action, unless expressly discharged by the Court.
64.—(1) Where the Corporation has reasonable cause to believe that an Freezing
obligor of a failed insured institution has funds in any account with any insured powers.
institution, it may apply to the Court by motion ex parte, before or at the time of
filing of an action for debt recovery or other like action or at any time after the
filing of an action, and before or after the originating process by which such
action is commenced is served on the obligor, for an interlocutory order freezing
the account of the obligor.
A 494 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any enactment, an order made
under subsection (1) shall subsist till judgment or a final determination of the
action, unless expressly discharged by the court.
Special 65.—(1) Where an obligor fails to comply in full within 90 days with a written
powers in demand notice issued by the Corporation requiring the obligor to pay a liquidated
bankruptcy.
sum to the Corporation which the Corporation certifies on the face of the demand
as being owed by the obligor to a failed financial institution, the Court shall, on the
application of the Corporation made by originating motion, make a receiving order
against the obligor except where at the hearing of the application the obligor proves
to the satisfaction of the court that he does not owe any liquidated sum at all to the
failed insured institution or that he has a counter-claim, set-off, or cross-demand
which equals or exceeds the liquidated sum owed to the failed insured institution.
(2) A receiving order made under subsection (1) is deemed to have been, and
Cap. B2, LFN, shall have effect as a receiving order, made under the Bankruptcy Act ;
2004.
(3) For the purpose of subsection (1), it shall not be necessary for the obligor
to commit any act of bankruptcy or for the Corporation to file a bankruptcy petition
or for any of the conditions precedent for the grant of a receiving order specified
under the Bankruptcy Act to be satisfied before the court shall grant the receiving
order against the obligor ;
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act, where a receiving
order is made against an obligor under this Act, the court may adjudge the obligor
bankrupt.
(5) Where a debtor is adjudged bankrupt under this Act, the Court may, on
the application of the Corporation appoint the official receiver or authorise the
Corporation to assume the office of trustee of the property of the obligor.
(6) A trustee appointed under this Act shall have all the powers of a trustee of
an adjudged bankrupt under the Bankruptcy Act and shall discharge his duties in
accordance with that Act.
(7) Any act, directive or permission authorised or required to be done or
given by the Committee of Inspection or creditors under the Bankruptcy Act may
be done or given by the court on the application of the trustee.
(8) Any obligor adjudged bankrupt under this Act shall be deemed to have
been adjudged bankrupt under the Bankruptcy Act which shall have effect, with
such modification as contained in this Act and the trustee appointed shall have
power to seek the directive of the court in respect of anything or act to be done
under the Bankruptcy Act.
Special power 66.—(1) The Corporation shall, under an order of the Federal High Court,
to track and
obtained ex parte—
trace.
(a) obtain access to any computer system component, electronic or mechanical
device of an obligor of a failed insured institution with a view to establishing
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 495
the location of funds belonging to the obligor of a failed insured institution,
and
(b) obtain information of any private account together with all banking,
financial and commercial records of any obligor of a failed insured institution.
(2) Any rules of banking secrecy and the protection of customer
confidentiality shall not be grounds for the denial of the power of the Corporation
under subsection (1).
67.—(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any enactment, rule or Special power
law, banking practice of rule or contractual provision, the Corporation may, for to obtain
information
the purposes of recovering any money owed to a failed insured institution by an
from insured
obligor underthe role of the Corporation as a liquidator, by written notice, require institution.
any insured institution to disclose or furnish to the Corporation, within such time
as may be specified in the written notice, details of, and balances in, all accounts
(howsoever described) maintained by such obligor with the insured institution,
and details of all investments by way of deposits or in financial instruments made
by such obligor with or through the insured institution or the bank identification
number or other unique identifier of the obligor.
(2) Any insured institution which fails to comply with the requirement of a
written notice issued to it by the Corporation under subsection (1) within the time
specified in such written notice is liable to a fine, payable to the Corporation, of
N10,000,000 and a further N50,000 for each day that the failure to comply
continues.
(3) A director of an insured institution who fails to comply with the requirement
of a written notice issued to him by the Corporation under subsection (1) within
the time specified in such written notice commits an offence and is liable on
conviction to imprisonment for three years :
Provided that a director of an insured institution shall not be liable under this
subsection, where such director, within a reasonable time of becoming aware
of such written notice, demands of the board of the insured institution, in
writing, that the insured institution comply with the requirements of the written
notice.
(4) Without prejudice to the provisions of this section, where an insured
institution fails to comply with the requirement of a written notice issued to it by
the Corporation under subsection (1) within the time specified in such written
notice, the Corporation may apply to the Court by motion ex parte for an order
compelling such insured institution to immediately comply with the requirement
of the written notice and the court, except it sees good reason to the contrary,
shall make an order compelling such insured institution to comply with the written
notice and award against such insured institution, costs of at least N5,000,000 in
addition to the fine under subsection (2).
A 496 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
Special 68.—(1) Where an obligor that is a body corporate fails to comply in full,
powers in within 30 days, with a written demand notice issued by the Corporation requiring
winding up.
the obligor to pay a liquidated sum to the Corporation which the Corporation
certifies on the face of the demand as being owed by the obligor to a failed insured
institution, the Court shall, on the application of the Corporation made by
originating motion, make a winding-up order against the obligor except where at
the hearing of the application, the obligor proves to the satisfaction of the court
that it does not owe any liquidated sum at all to the failed insured institution or
that it has a counter-claim, set-off, or cross-demand which equals or exceeds the
liquidated sum owed to the failed insured institution.
(2) Where a winding up order is made under subsection (1), the Court, on the
application of the Corporation, shall appoint the official receiver or some other
fit person to assume the office of the liquidator to wind up the affairs of the
obligor.
(3) Subject to subsection (1), any liquidator appointed under this Act shall
have all the powers of a liquidator under the Companies and Allied Matters Act,
and shall discharge his duties in accordance with that Act.
(4) Any act, directive, or permission authorised or required to be done by the
Act No. 3, committee of inspection or by the creditors under the Companies and Allied
2020. Matters Act may be done or given by the court upon the application of the liquidator
(5) A winding-up order made against any obligor under this Act shall be
deemed to have been made under the Companies and Allied Matters Act, and the
provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act shall have effect, with such
modifications as are contained in this Act.
Protection of 69.—(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act or any other enactment,
the no restorative, prohibitive or like order shall be granted against the Corporation
Corporation in
in relation to payment of insured deposits to depositors of an insured institution,
respect of
judicial or in relation to the Corporation acting underthe provisions of Part VIII of this
proceedings. Act or as a liquidator or provisional liquidator under the provisions of this Act,
and the remedy of any claimant or applicant against the Corporation in any such
action, suit or proceedings relating to or connected with this section shall be
damages only, limited to an amount not exceeding,in the case of a—
(a) depositor, the maximum insured deposit ;
(b) shareholder, the nominal value of the shares of the shareholder in the
insured institution at the time the cause of action arose ; and
(c) group of shareholders, the nominal value of the aggregate of the shares of
the shareholders in the insured institution at the time the cause of action arose.
(2) An action, suit or proceedings shall not be proceeded with or commenced
against such insured institution or the Corporation except with the leave of Court
given on such terms as the Court may impose.
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 497
(3) Agarnishee order nisi or absolute or attachment, sequestration, distress,
or execution shall not be made against the—
(a) Corporation in respect of any judgment debt or other liabilities owed by
such insured institution or any other judgment debtor ; or
(b) bank account or assets or effects of the failed insured institution.
(4) A creditor who had issued execution against any goods or land of the
insured institution or attached any debt due to the insured institution shall not be
entitled to retain the benefit of the execution or attachment against the insured
institution unless he had completed the execution or attachment before the
commencement of liquidation of such insured institution.
(5) For the purpose of subsection (4) an execution against the goods shall be
taken to be completed by seizure and sale and an attachment of debt shall be
deemed to be completed by receipt of payment by the judgment creditor and an
execution against land shall be deemed to be completed by seizure and in case of
an equitable interest, by the appointment of a receiver while commencement of
liquidation shall be from the date of revocation of the operating licence of the
insured institution.
(6) A purchaser in good faith for value and without notice under a sale by the
Court in the course of execution being levied on any property of the insured
institution before the commencement of the resolution of the insured institution
shall acquire good title against the liquidator.
(7) Where any goods of an insured institution are taken in execution and
before the sale or the completion of the execution by receipt or recovery of the
full amount of levy, notice is served on the sheriff of court by the Corporation
that it has become the liquidator of the insured institution, the sheriff shall deliver
the goods and any money seized or received in part satisfaction of the execution
to the Corporation provided the Corporation satisfies the charge for costs of
execution.
70. The Corporation shall have power to void the transfer of an interest in Prohibition of
any property or asset of an insured institution that was fraudulently transferred assets
stripping.
by such an insured institution within five years before the commencement of the
liquidation of that insured institution and shall have power to trace and recover
from subsequent transferees provided that such transferees are not purchasers in
good faith.
71.—(1) The Corporation shall have power to enforce any contract agreement Pre-
or deed entered into by the insured institution in liquidation with any person liquidation
contracts.
notwithstanding that such contract, agreement or deed provides for termination
in the event of insolvency or liquidation of such insured institution.
(2) Subject to the provisions of the Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act No. 5,
Act, no person without the consent of the Corporation shall - 2020.
A 498 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
(a) exercise the right or have power to terminate any contract, agreement or
deed or declare a default in any such contract, agreement or deed to which the
insured institution is a party ;
(b) obtain possession of or exercise control over any asset or property of
such insured institution ; and
(c) affect any contractual rights of the insured institution within 180 days of
the commencement of liquidation of such insured institution.
(3) The Corporation shall have power to repudiate contracts, agreements or
deeds to which the insured institution is a party which the Corporation determines
to be burdensome and that repudiation of such contracts, agreements or deeds
would promote the orderly winding-up of the insured institution's affairs, provided
that any person aggrieved by the exercise of such power shall have the right to
file action in court for special damages limited to actual loss suffered as a result
of such repudiation from the date of commencement of liquidation to the date of
repudiation of such contract, deed or agreement, against the Corporation as
liquidator.
(4) The Corporation shall not have power to avoid legally enforceable security
interests created over the property and assets of a debtor to the insured institution
or the institution including legal mortgages and other charges except the
Corporation determines that such interests were created—
(a) in contemplation of insolvency of the debtor or the insured institution ; or
(b) with intent to hinder or defraud the insured institution or its depositors,
other creditors or shareholders.
(5) An agreement which diminishes the interest of the Corporation in any
asset of an insured institution shall not be valid in law unless it is in writing, was
executed contemporaneously by the insured institution and the counter party,
was approved by the board of directors of the insured institution and has been
continuously in the record of the insured institution.
(6) The Corporation shall not be liable to payment of penalties, interest or
fines imposed by any authority, government department, agency, office, contract
or agreement.
Priority of 72. Where an insured institution is unable to meet its obligations or suspends
claims. payment or where its management and control has been taken over by the Central
Bank of Nigeriaor where its licence has been revoked, the assets of the insured
institution shall be available to meet all its deposit liabilities and such deposit
liabilities shall have priority over all other liabilities of the insured institution.
Stay of 73.—(1) Where the Corporation has commenced liquidation of an insured
pending suits. institution and applies to the court for stay of any suit, application, proceedings,
execution, attachment, or action pending or instituted in any court by or against
such insured institution or the Corporation, the Court shall, whether or not leave
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 499
had earlier been granted to commence or proceed with such action or matter
under this Act or any other law, grant such stay as to all parties.
(2) Where the Corporation has assumed control of an insured institution under
this Act and applies to the court for stay of any suit, application, proceedings,
execution, attachment, or action pending or instituted in any court by or against
such insured institution or the Corporation, the Court shall, whether or not
leave had earlier been granted to commence or proceed with such action or matter
under this Act or any other law, grant such stay as to all parties until the Corporation
relinquishes control of the insured institution.
(3) Where an insured institution is in liquidation any judgment sum obtained
against the insured institution by a judgment creditor that has not been satisfied
prior to commencement of liquidation or that is obtained after commencement of
liquidation shall not be enforceable against the assets of the insured institution
facing liquidation or the Corporation.
74.—(1) The Corporation shall conclude winding up of an insured institution Termination of
as may be provided in the Winding-up Rules issued under the provisions of section liquidation
activities.
56 of this Act.
(2) The Corporation may establish a subsidiary to take custody of the residue
of assets, if any, of failed insured institutions whose liquidation has been terminated
underthis Act.
75. Without prejudice to the Banks and other Financial Institutions Act, Inconsistency
with other
where the provisions of any other law are inconsistent with those of this Act, the
laws.
provisions of this Act shall prevail.
Act No. 5,
2020.
76.—(1) A director, significant shareholder, officer, employee, agent, attorney, Liability of
accountant or auditor, appraiser or any other party engaged by or providing directors,
shareholders
services to an insured institution that fails shall be held personally liable in
and officers.
monetary damages where his or her actions or inactions caused or contributed to
the failure of such institution in civil action by, on behalf of, or at the request or
direction of the Corporation, acting as liquidator, supervisor or insurer and which
action is prosecuted wholly or partially for the benefit of the Corporation and
insured depositors.
(2) The liability of directors of an insured institution that fails for the grant of
unauthorised credit facilities in violation of the provisions of any law or regulation
shall be unlimited and personal.
(3) In any proceedings related to any claim against a director, significant
shareholder, officer, employee, agent, attorney, accountant or auditor, appraiser
or other party engaged by or providing services to an insured institution that fails,
recoverable damages determined to result from the improvident or otherwise
improper use or investment of any insured institutions' assets shall include principal
losses and appropriate interest, profit or dividend.
A 500 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
(4) This section applies to a director, significant shareholder, officer, employee,
agent, attorney, accountant or auditor, appraiser or any other party engaged by or
providing services to an insured institution that fails prior to its being declared
failing or failed institution.
PART X—CRIMINAL PROSECUTION AND OFFENCES
Offences and 77.—(1) Any person who, being a director, an officer, or staff of an insured
penalties.
institution—
(a) fails to take all reasonable care to secure compliance with the provisions
of this Act, or
(b) fails to take all reasonable care to secure the authenticity of any statement
submitted under the provisions of this Act or any Regulations made under it,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least N10,000,000
or imprisonment for a term of at least five years or both.
(2) Any person, being a significant shareholder, a director, an officer, or staff
of an insured institution, who—
(a) while he is in default in payment of any pecuniary obligation due to any
insured institution, fails or neglects to cause any dividend declared and paid to
him in respect of an insured institution to be applied towards satisfaction of
any such pecuniary obligation within two working days of the receipt of any
such declared dividend,
(b) allows any loan, advance, overdraft or credit facility taken by him in any
insured institution to be classified as a non-performing loan,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least N10,000,000
or imprisonment for a term of at least five years or both.
(3) In addition to the penalty prescribed in subsection (2), the following shall
apply to a person convicted under that subsection,in the case of—
(a) paragraph (a), forfeit any dividend payment received and such forfeited
dividend payment shall be applied towards the repayment of the due pecuniary
obligation ; and
(b) paragraph (b), all dividends payable to such director or significant
shareholder by any insured institution, all the assets of the significant
shareholder or director and all shares or interests of such significant shareholder
or director in companies shall be available to liquidate such facilities, which
shall have priority over any other liabilities of the significant shareholder or
director including that of secured creditors and judgment creditors.
(4) A significant shareholder or director who is granted any loan advance, or
credit facility in breach of the provisions of this Act, commits an offence and is
liable on conviction to a fine of an amount equivalent to at least 25 per cent of the
amount of such loan, advance or credit facility or to imprisonment for a term of
three years.
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 501
(5) All directors of an insured institution shall be liable jointly and severally
to the insured institution for any loss arising from a contravention of the provisions
of this section.
(6) For the purpose of subsection (4), the term "Director" includes director's
wife, husband, father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter, their spouses, a
company in which the director is also a director or shareholder, a company whose
board, or managing director, is accustomed to act in accordance with the advice,
directions or instructions of the director and all other related parties as may be
determined by the Corporation.
(7) Any insured institution that reimburses or pays for a staff, officer or director
directly or indirectly a fine imposed under this Act,commits an offence and is
liable on conviction to a fine of at least N20,000,000 and also forfeit the amount
repaid or reimbursed to the staff.
(8) Any director or officer of the insured institution who grants, allows to be
granted or is any way involved in the granting of a loan, a guarantee or credit
facility—
(a) without security as required by the insured institution's regulations or
policy ; or
(b) in contravention of the insured institution's regulations or policy or this
Act or regulation made under it,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to the repayment of the
unsecured loan, guarantee or facility including interest and imprisonment for
a term of two years without the option of fine.
(9) Any principal officer of an insured institution who contravenes the
provisions of this section, commits an offence and is liable to a fine not more
than N5,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of three years or both.
(10) Without prejudice to criminal prosecution as provided in this Section,
any person found guilty of violating the provision of any law referred to in this
section shall in addition to imprisonment upon conviction be—
(a) liable to forfeiture of all assets derived from commission of the offence ;
and
(b) subject to penalty assessed as the loss suffered by the insured institution
as a result of the commission of such offence or which is related directly to the
amount involved in the offence committed.
78.—(1) A director or officer or significant shareholder or employee or Civil
customer or service provider or agent or legal practitioner or accountant or external damages.
auditor or consultant, or any other party employed by or providing services to an
insured institution may be held personally liable in monetary damages in any
civil action instituted, on behalf of, at the request or direction of, or taken over,
or by the Corporation acting as liquidator of such insured institution for
A 502 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
mismanagement or poor management of such insured institution or its assets or
for breach of trust, negligence, gross negligence or similar conduct that
demonstrates breach of or disregard of duty of care or other tortuous conduct as
well as under any statute whether or not resulting in the failure of such insured
institution.
(2) In any proceeding related to any claim for monetary damages against an
insured institution's director, officer, employee, significant shareholder, customer,
service provider, agent, legal practitioner, accountant, external auditor, consultant,
or any other party employed by or providing services to an insured institution,
recoverable damages determined to result from the mismanagement or poor
management of such insured institution or its assets or the improvident or
otherwise improper use or investment of an insured institution's assets shall include
principal losses and appropriate interest.
Power to 79.—(1) Without prejudice to section 174 of the Constitution of the Federal
compound
Republic of Nigeria, the Corporation may compound any offence punishable
offences.
under this Act by accepting an amount less than the fine provided for the offence
by this Act.
(2) All money receivable under the provisions of subsection (1) shall be paid
to the Corporation.
(3) All offences under this Act shall be tried by the Federal High Court.
Power to 80.—(1) The Corporation shall have power to investigate in collaboration
investigate.
with the Nigeria Police Force or other law enforcement agencies any person
suspected of the commission of an offence under this Act or a regulation made
under it.
(2) The powers of the Corporation under subsection (1) shall include the
power to summon any person to testify, provide information, give account, or
produce any document or other record in the possession or under the control of
that person.
(3) Any person summoned under subsection (2) who fails to appear or fails
to testify or provide information or give account or produce a document or other
record in his possession or under his control or who provides false or misleading
information, or forged or falsified documents or other records, commits an offence
and is liable on conviction to a fine of N5,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of
three years or both.
Right to 81.—(1) Subject to the provisions of section 174 (1) of the Constitution of
appear in the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999, any legal practitioner in the employment
court.
of the Corporation may, with the consent of the Managing Director, prosecute or
Cap. C23,
defend criminal, civil or other proceedings in the name of and on behalf of the
LFN, 2004.
Corporation in respect of matters relating to the activities, business or operations
Cap. F2, LFN,
2004. of the Corporation or any failed insured institution under this Act in the course of
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 503
carrying out the objectives of this Act and the Failed Banks (Recovery of Debt)
and Other Financial Malpractices in Banks Act.
(2) Without prejudice to subsection (1), a legal practitioner employed by the
Corporation shall have power to institute and undertake criminal proceedings
against directors, officers, significant shareholders and customers of failed insured
institutions before any court of law in Nigeria other than a court martial and to
discontinue at any stage before judgment is delivered any such criminal
proceeding, relating to, touching upon or concerning violations of the provisions
of this Act or any regulations made under it, or under the Failed Banks (Recovery
of Debt) and Other Financial Malpractices in Banks Act.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of any enactment to the contrary, a person
employed in the Corporation who is a legal practitioner shall, while so employed
be entitled to appear in Court as a legal practitioner for the purpose and in the
course of carrying out the objects and objectives of this Act, without prejudice to
the power of the Corporation to engage private legal practitioners in any
proceedings.
82.—(1) The Managing Director shall submit to the Board for approval not Accounts and
later than 30 September of each year, an estimate of its expenditure and income audit.
during the succeeding year.
(2) The Corporation shall—
(a) keep proper accounts in respect of each financial year ;
(b) keep proper records in relation to those accounts ; and
(c) cause the accounts to be audited within six months after the end of the
financial year.
(3) For the purpose of subsection (1) the financial year of the Corporation
shall be from 1 January to 31 December of every year, or such other period as
may be determined by the Board.
(4) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by auditors appointed
on such terms as may be determined by the Board, subject to the provision of Cap. C23,
section 85 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999. LFN, 2004.
83. The Management of the Corporation shall prepare and submit to the Annual report.
Board, not later than three months after the end of each financial year, a report
which shall be in such form as the Board may direct and shall relate to the activities
of the Corporation during the immediately preceding financial year and thereafter
a copy of such report shall be submitted to the Governor of the Central Bank of
Nigeria, the Auditor-General for the Federation and the Minister.
PART IX - GENERAL PROVISIONS
84. All expenses and fees of the liquidator, including liquidation, litigation, Liquidation
valuation, investigation, administrative, criminal and civil actions, shall be paid expenses.
in priority to all other claims except insured deposits.
A 504 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
Advertisement. 85. An insured institution may advertise its insured status without prior
approval from the Corporation.
Exemption 86. The Corporation in its corporate capacity or as a liquidator of an insured
from taxation. institution or otherwise howsoever shall be exempted from all taxes, fees, penalties,
charges, duties, levies, or other like imposts payable to any institution, agency,
department or authority of the Federal Government, State Government, Federal
Capital Territory, Local Government or Area Councils of the Federal Capital
Territory, save income tax payable by staff of the Corporation, value added tax
and withholding tax which are payable by any third parties under any contract
entered into by such third parties with the Corporation, and environmental
sanitation and municipal services or like service fees.
Exemption 87. The Corporation shall be exempted from the provisions of the Insurance
from
Act or any amendment where it relates to the functions and powers of the
Insurance Act.
Corporation as deposit insurer.
Cap. I17,
LFN, 2004.
Power to 88.—(1) The Corporation shall have power to borrow from the Central Bank
borrow. of Nigeria such money as it may deem fit for the performance of its functions
under this Act.
(2) The Central Bank of Nigeria may guarantee in such manner and upon
such terms as it may deem fit the redemption and the repayment of any interest on
any debenture stocks raised by the Corporation.
Relationship 89.—(1) The Corporation may be granted access to reports of examination
with the conducted by the Central Bank of Nigeria.
Central Bank
of Nigeria. (2) The Corporation shall make reports of its examination of insured
institutions and any other information essential to safe and sound banking practice
available to the Central Bank of Nigeria.
(3) The Central Bank of Nigeria shall make available to the Corporation
relevant information on the insured institutions licensed by it.
(4) The Central Bank of Nigeria shall be required to inform the Corporation
on all the contraventions committed by any insured institution under the provisions
of this Act.
(5) The Corporation shall co-operate with the Central Bank of Nigeria on
matters affecting any insured institution.
External 90.—(1) No duty to which an auditor of an insured institution or a person
auditors of all appointed under the provisions of Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act or
insured
any amendment is subject shall be contravened by reason of his communicating
institution and
reporting in good faith to the Corporation whether or not in response to a request made by
requirements. it, any information or opinion on a matter to which this section applies and which
Act No. 5, is relevant to safe and sound banking and financial practices.
2020.
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 505
(2) An auditor of an insured institution shall recognise the Corporation's
responsibility for the protection of the interest of depositors and shall bring to the
notice of the Corporation—
(a) any adverse development such as possibility of imminent financial collapse ;
(b) evidence of an occurrence which has led or is likely to lead to a material
diminishing of the insured institution's net asset ;
(c) evidence that there has been a significant weakness in the accounting and
other records or the internal control system of the insured institution ;
(d) evidence that the management of the insured institution has reported
financial information to the Corporation which is misleading in a material
particular ;
(e) where he believes that a fraud or other misappropriation has been
committed by the directors, management or staff of the insured institution or
has evidence of the intention of directors or senior management to commit
such fraud or misappropriation ; or
(f ) where there has been an occurrence such as acting in an irresponsible or
reckless manner in respect of the affairs of the insured institution which causes
the auditor to no longer have confidence in the competence of the directors or
the senior management to conduct the business of the insured institution in a
prudent or safe and sound manner so as to protect the interest of the depositors.
(3) Any auditor of an insured institution who acts in contravention of or fails
deliberately or negligently to comply with any of the provisions of subsection (2)
in any respect, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a maximum fine
of N50,000,000, and where the approved auditor is a firm, the individual partner
or partners in charge of the audit shall, in addition, be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not more than five years and to the fine required to be
paid by the firm under this subsection.
91. The Corporation or any of its directors, officers or agents shall not be Indemnity of
subject to any action, claim, suit, court proceedings, or demand by or liability to the
Corporation.
any person in respect of anything done or omitted to be done in good faith under
or in execution of or in connection with the operations, business or activities of
the Corporation or the execution of any power conferred upon the Corporation,
such director, officer or agent.
92. No suit, action or court proceedings shall be commenced or instituted Pre-action
against the Corporation before the expiration of a period of one month after written notice.
notice of intention to commence the suit shall have been served on the Corporation
by the intending plaintiff or his agent and the notice shall clearly and explicitly
state the cause of action and the place of abode for the intending plaintiff and the
relief which he claims.
93. Every originating process or other process intended for service on the Service of
Corporation shall be served by delivering the process to the office of the Director, process.
A 506 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
Legal Department at the Corporation's Head Office, Abuja, Federal Capital
Territory.
Designation of 94. The Chief Judge of the Federal High Court may designate any judge of
special judges. the Federal High Court to hear matters for the recovery of debts owed to an
insured institution under the control and management of the Corporation or under
liquidation and criminal offences related to it or arising from the provisions of
this Act, the Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act,the Failed Banks (Recovery
Cap. F2, LFN,
of Debt) and Other Financial Malpractices in Banks Act, or any legislation
2004.
containing banking and related offences, to the exclusion of any other matter for
such period as may be determined by the Chief Judge.
Institution of 95. Without prejudice to section 94 of this Act, the Corporation may institute
action at the
action for the recovery of debt with a value of N10,000,000 and above, owed to
Special
Tribunal. a failing or failed insured institution or the Corporation or an asset management
company established by the Corporation under the acquisition of impaired assets
under section 50 (1) (h) of this Act before the Special Tribunal for the Enforcement
and Recovery of Eligible Loans, established by section 102 of Banks and Other
Act No. 5, Financial Institutions Act, and accordingly the jurisdiction of the said Tribunal is
2020. extended to cover such actions and such debt are deemed to be eligible debt for
the purpose of the jurisdiction of the said Tribunal.
Regulations. 96.—(1) The Board may make regulations, rules or orders to give full effect
to the provisions of this Act.
(2) The power to make regulations, rules or orders conferred on the Board by
this Act shall include—
(a) power to make provisions for such incidentals and supplementary matters
as the authority making the instrument considers expedient for the purpose of
the instrument ; and
(b) power to make different provisions for different circumstances guiding
the operations of the Deposit Insurance Scheme.
(3) The Corporation may impose a penalty not more than N10,000,000 on an
insured institution or its directors or officials or recommend to the Governor of
the Central Bank of Nigeria to suspend the licence of the insured institution if the
insured institution fails to comply with any provisions and regulations, under this
Act on matters relating to Deposit Insurance.
Liquidation of 97. The Corporation shall not be placed in liquidation except under the
the provisions of an Act of the National Assembly enacted in that behalf and in such
Corporation.
manner as that Act may specify.
Repeal, 98.—(1) The Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act No. 16 2006 is
savings and
repealed.
transitional
provisions. (2) Without prejudice to section 6 of the Interpretation Act,the repeal of the
Cap. I23, Act referred to in subsection (1) shall not affect anything done under that Act.
LFN, 2004.
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 507
(3) The rights, interests, obligations and liabilities of the Corporation existing
before the commencement of this Act under any contract or instrument, or in law
or in equity, shall, by virtue of this Act, be assigned to and continue to be vested
in the Corporation.
(4) Any contract or instrument mentioned in subsection (3) shall be of the
same effect against or in favour of the Corporation and shall be enforceable fully
and effectively.
99. In this Act— Interpretation.
“bank” means any person who is licenced by the Central Bank of Nigeria to
carry on the business of acceptance of deposit ;
“Board” means the Board of Directors of the Corporation ;
“bridge bank” means a bank established by the Corporation in accordance
with section 54 of this Act ;
“close associates” means partner, associate, employer, or employee of the
board member ;
“concurrence” means prior written agreement ;
“Corporation” means the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation established
undersection 1 of this Act ;
“Court” means any Court of competent jurisdiction including a Federal or
State High Court, Tribunal, National Industrial Court, or any other Court created
by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria or an Act of the National
Assembly ;
“Deposit” means money lodged by depositors with any insured institution
for safe keeping or for the purpose of earning interest whether or not repayable
on demand, upon a given period of time, or upon a fixed date, or at a time or in
circumstances agreed by or on behalf of the depositor making the lodgement
with the insured institution receiving it and includes money in an insured
institution that may otherwise be described by the Corporation as deposits, but
shall not include without prejudice to the generality of the following—
(a) money received by the insured institution as agent or otherwise for
purchase of securities, stock, shares of any company or body, or a stakeholder ;
(b) money lodged in an insured institution by any person for any purpose
other than for safekeeping, or for earning interest ;
(c) application money and other money paid prior to allotment of shares
by an applicant on account of shares or other securities held in a separate
account as deposit by the issuing house under the Investments and Securities
Act, or any money lodged in or received by an insured institution by any
person for any purpose which may otherwise be determined not to be a
deposit by the Corporation ;
A 508 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
“Deposit Money Bank” means a bank other than a specialised bank under the
Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act, No. 5, 2020 ;
“dissolution” means the closing down of a company by removing its name
from the register of companies ;
“Excess Uninsured Deposit Claims” means deposits over and above the insured
amounts payable on realisation of the assets of a failed insured institution ;
“Executive Management” for the purpose of section 40 of this Act only, means
the Managing Director and the two Executive Directors acting by a majority
vote ;
“failed insured institution” means an insured institution whose licence has
been revoked or which is critically undercapitalised, that is, its capital to risk
weighted assets ratio is above 2 per cent but below 5 per cent, or that is declared
a failed insured institution by the Corporation or the Central Bank of Nigeria
in accordance with the criteria stipulated in the Prudential Guidelines issued
for licenced insured institutions ;
“failing insured institution” means an insured institution whose capital to
risk weighted assets ratio or regulatory capital is below the minimum prescribed
by Central Bank of Nigeria in accordance with the criteria stipulated in the
Prudential Guidelines issued for licenced insured institutions ;
“failure of an insured institution” means a failing or failed insured
institution ;
“family member” means husband, wife, father, mother, brother, sister, son,
daughter and their spouses ;
“insured institution” means all financial institutions in Nigeria licensed or
authorised to accept deposits from the public in accordance with the provisions
of the Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act, No. 3, 2020 ;
“liquidator” means the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation or such other
person appointed by the Corporation to act as liquidator ;
“Minister” means the Minister responsible for finance ;
“obligor” means the debtor or guarantor of a debt owed to an insured
institution ;
“other financial institutions” has the same meaning ascribed to it under the
Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act, No. 3, 2020 ;
“other deposit-taking financial institutions” includes licenced Microfinance
banks, licenced Primary Mortgage institutions, specialised banks and any other
deposit taking institution as may be designated by the Central Bank of Nigeria ;
“partners” in this Act shall include directors of a limited liability company
performing audit functions in respect of an insured institution ;
“President” means the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria ;
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 509
“principal officer” means a director, chief executive officer, chief operating
officer, chief financial officer, or such other officer of an insured institution as
may be so designated by the Corporation ;
“significant interest” means control over or beneficial ownership of shares
of an aggregate value of at least 5 per cent of the total shareholding, whether
held directly by the person or through another person or a company in which
he has shareholding ;
“significant shareholder” means a person with significant interest in an insured
institution ; and
“State” means any of the States of the Federation.
100. This Act may be cited as the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Citation.
Act, 2023.
A 510 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
SCHEDULE
Section 7(9)
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD
1. The Board may make standing orders regulating the proceedings of the
Board or of any committee and shall meet at least four times in every year.
2. The quorum of the Board shall be five which shall include the Chairman,
the Managing Director or one Executive Director, and the representative of the
Central Bank of Nigeria.
3. Where the Board wishes to obtain the advice of any person on a particular
matter, the Board may invite the person for such period as it deems fit, but a
person who is invited by virtue of this paragraph shall not be entitled to vote at
any meeting of the Board and shall not count towards a quorum.
4.—(1) Subject to the provisions of any applicable standing orders, the Board
shall meet whenever summoned by the Chairman and if the Chairman is required
so to do by notice given to him by at least three other members shall summon a
meeting of the Board to be held within 21 days from the date on which the notice
is given.
(2) At any meeting of the Board, the Chairman shall preside or in his absence,
the members present at the meeting shall appoint one of their members to preside
at the meeting.
5.—(1) The Board may appoint one or more committees to carry out on its
behalf, such functions as the Board may determine.
(2) A committee appointed under this paragraph shall consist of the number
of persons determined by the Board and not more than one-third of those persons
may be persons who are not members of the Board and a person other than a
member of the Board shall hold office on the committee in accordance with the
terms of the instrument by which he or she is appointed.
(3) A decision of a committee constituted under this paragraph shall be of no
effect until it is ratified by the Board.
6.—(1) The affixing of the seal of the Corporation shall be authenticated by
the signature of the Chairman or Managing Director and any other person
authorised by the Board.
(2) Any contract or instrument which if made or executed by a person not
being a body corporate, would not be required to be under seal and may be made
or executed on behalf of the Board by any person generally or specially authorised
to act for that purpose by the Board.
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023 2023 No. 33 A 511
EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM
This Act, amongst other things, repeals the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation
Act, No. 16 2006 and replaces it with a new Act that provides for the Nigeria Deposit
Insurance Corporation as the insurer of all insurable deposit liabilities of insured institutions.
I, certify, in accordance with Section 2 (1) of the Acts Authentication Act, Cap. A2, Laws
of the Federation of Nigeria 2004, that this is a true copy of the Bill passed by both Houses
of the National Assembly.
SANI MAGAJI TAMBAWAL, fcna
Clerk to the National Assembly
8th Day of May, 2023.
A 512 2023 No. 33 Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2023
3202
,LLIB
NOITAROPROC
ECNARUSNI
TISOPED
AIREGIN
EHT
OT
ELUDEHCS
)5(
)4(
)3(
)2(
)1(
yb
dessaP
etaD
yb
dessaP
etaD
eht
fo
yrammuS
eht
fo
eltiT
gnoL
eltiT
trohS
fo
esuoH
eht
etaneS
eht
lliB
eht
fo
stnetnoC
lliB
lliB
eht
fo
sevitatneserpeR
3202
,yaM
dn2
.3202
,hcraM
ht82
-nI
tisopeD
airegiN
slaeper
lliB
sihT
tisopeD
airegiN
eht
laeper
ot
tcA
nA
tisopeD
airegiN
6002
61
.oN
,tcA
noitaroproC
ecnarus
61
.oN
,tcA
noitaroproC
ecnarusnI
ecnarusnI
-nI
tisopeD
airegiN
eht
stcane
dna
tisopeD
airegiN
eht
tcane
dna
6002
,lliB
noitaroproC
.3202
,tcA
noitaroproC
ecnarus
dna
;
3202
,tcA
noitaroproC
ecnarusnI
3202
.srettam
detaler
rof
ot
em
yb
dnuof
dna
ylbmessA
lanoitaN
eht
yb
dehcaer
noisiced
eht
htiw
em
yb
derapmoc
ylluferac
neeb
sah
lliB
siht
taht
yfitrec
I
fo
swaL
,2A
.paC
tcA
noitacitnehtuA
stcA
eht
fo
snoisivorp
eht
htiw
ecnadrocca
ni
si
dna
sesuoH
eht
fo
noisiced
tcerroc
dna
eurt
eb
.4002
,airegiN
fo
noitaredeF
eht
TNESSA
I
ancf
,LAWABMAT
IJAGAM
INAS
SL
ylbmessA
lanoitaN
eht
ot
krelC
3202,yaM
fo yaD
ht8
RFCG
,IRAHUB
UDAMMAHUM
airegiN
fo
cilbupeR
laredeF
eht
fo
tnediserP
3202
,yaM
fo yaD
ht62
