SECURED TRANSACTIONS IN J\1OVAHLE ASSETS ACT, 2017
EXPLANATORY J\1EMORANDUM
This Act provides for secured transactions, registration and regulation of security interests in
movable assets.
SECURED TRANSACTIONS IN MOVABLE ASSETS ACT, 2017
Arrangement of Sections
Section:
PART I - OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE
1 Obje9tives.
2 Scope.
PART II - SECURITY INTERESTS
3 Creation of a seclJl'ity interest.
4 Grantor's rights in the collateral.
5 Content of a security agreement.
6 Description of collateral in a security agreement
7 Continuation of a security interest.
8 Perfection of security interest.
9 Perfection of security interest in proceeds.
PART III-NATIONAL COLLATERAL REGISTRY r
IO Establishment of the National collateral registry.
11 Ftmctions of the collateral registry.
PART IV- REGISTRATION OF FINANCING STATEMENTS
12 Procedure for registration of a finm1cing statement.
13 Consent to register a financing statement.
14 Contents of a financing statement.
15 Description of collateral.
16 Error in a finanoing statement.
17 ,Consequences of other errors in the registration.
18 Duration of a registered financing statement.
19 Amendment of a registered financing statement.
20 Unauthorised transfer of a collateral.
21 Cancellation of a registered financing statement.
22 Search of information in the registry.
PART V - PRIORITY OF A SECURITY INTEREST
23 Priority of security interests.
24 Same priority for original collateral, proceeds and advances.
25 Transfer does not affect priority.
26 Voluntary subordination of priority.
27 Priority of purchase money security interest and its proceeds.
28 Priority of security interests in processed or co-rninglecl goods.
29 Priority with respect to receipt of funds or cash,
30 Priority of holders of liens.
31 Priority of holders of negotiable instruments and title documents,
32 Rights of a buyer or lessee of goods.
33 Rights m1d priority of assignee,
34 Priority of judgment creditor.
PART VI - RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF A GRANTOR, BORROWER AND CREDIT(
35 Good faith and commercial reasonableness.
36 Entitlement to damages.
3 7 Creditor to provide confirmation statement to the grantor and the borrower.
3 8 Provision of certain information by a creditor.
PART VII-REALISATION OF SECURITY INTERESTS
39 Scope of the applic,1tion of this part.
40 Repossession of collateral.
41 Establishment of the mediation and dispute resolution panel.
42 Creditor may render collateral inoperative.
43 Creditor may collect account receivable.
44 Creditor may dispose of a collateral.
45 Notice of sale of collateral.
46 Discharge of subordinate security interests.
4 7 Creditor to give statement of account.
48 Distribution of proceeds of sale.
49 Right to redeem the collateral.
50 Reinstatement of security agreement.
PART VIII - APPLICABLE LAW AND CONFLICT OF LAW
51 Applicable law.
52 Law governing the security agreement.
53 Insolvency proceedings.
54 Non applicability of Stamp Duties Act.
55 General.
56 Jurisdiction.
PART IX- MISCELLANEOUS
57 Fees and charges.
58 Offences and penalties.
59 Criminal jurisdiction.
60 Grievance procedure.
61 Rules and guidelines.
62 Transitional provisions.
63 Interpretation.
64 Short title.
SECURED TRANSACTIONS IN MOVABLE ASSE1'.S ACT, 2017
A Bill
For
An Act to provide for secured transactions, registration andregulation of security
interests in movable assets; and for related matters.
J
Commenccrnenl
'-'ACTED by the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria:
PART I- OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE
Objectives. -
The objectives of this Act are to:
(a) enhance financial inclusion in Nigeria;
(b) stimulate responsible lending to micro, small and medium
enterprises;
(c ) facilitate access to credit secured with movable assets;
(d) facilitate perfection of security interests in movcible assets;
( e) facilitate realization of security interests in movable assets; and
(f) establish a collateral registry and provide for its operations.
( 1) This Act applies to: Scope.
(a) all security interests in movable assets created by an agreement
that secures payment or the performance of an obligation;
(b) a person who is a creditor, borrower or grantor under this Act;
and
(c) every public registry established by any Act of the National
Assembly to coordinate or ware house or oversee transactions in
movable assets in Nigeria shall be operated in a manner that
creates automated interface between such a registry and the.
National Collateral Registry, with a purpose to ensuring and
guaranteeing that the registry is made accessible through, by.,
and from the National Collateral Registry.
(2) This Act does not apply to:
(a) any right of set-off;
"'
(b) the creatio11 or transfer of an interest in land other llrnn account .
receivables; and
( c) any interest created by a transfer, assignment or mortgage in .
movable property governed by a law for which a registry has
been established with regards to ships and aircrafts.
(3) Nothing in this Act shall prevent the creation of security interest in the form of charges
by companies registered under the Companies and Allied Matters Act. Cap. c20, LPN, 21
PART II- SECURITY INTERESTS
Creation of a secu1
3. (I) A security interest is created by a security agreement between a grantor and creditor. interest.
(2) The security interest in any asset acquired by a grantor after the coming into force of the
Security Agreement shall take effect without further consent or any other_act of the
Grantor at the moment the Grantor acquires such asset where: ·
(a) the asset falls under the collateral description in the Security
Agreement; and
(b) the Security Agreement provides that the :,ecurity interest
extends to the grantor's present and future assets.
4. (]) A security interest shall be created to the extent of the rights that the Gran tor has in the Umnlor's rights in
collaternl.
collateral.
(2) A transfer of account receivable or security interest in an account receivable by a grantor
is effective:
( a) between the grantor and the creditor; and
(b) against the account debtor of the account receivable
notwithstanding any agreement limiting the account debtor's
right to create a security interest in or assign its account
receivable.
(3) A creation of a security interest in any movable asset is effective notwithstanding any
agreement limiting the grantor's right to create such security interest.
A security agreement shall: Content of a securil
i.
agreement.
(a) reflect the intention of the grantor and creditor to create a security
interest;
(b) identify the grantor and creditor;
(c) describe the secured obligation including the maximum amount
for which the security interest is enforceable;
(cl) describe the collateral aclequately;
(e) indicate the tenor of the obligation securecl; and
(f) confirm the agreement by parties to submit to arbitration, as first
recourse in a situation that any civil dispute arises .
. (!) A description of collateral is adequate ifit is accompanied with: Descriplio11 of
co!laler[ll ln a seclll'U
agree111e11t
(a) item, kind, type or category, year of manufacture or any other
description that can identify the collateral; or
(b) a statement that a security interest is taken in all the present and
future assets of the grantor; and
( c) for the purpose of section 6 (I) (a) and (b ), a description of the
insurance cover on the collateral.
(2) A security interest shall extend to the identifiable or traceable proceeds of a collateral,
whether or not the security agreement contains a description of the proceeds.
(1) A security interest shall automatically continue in the identi.fiable or traceable proceeds Continuation offl
security inleresl.
of the collateral, whether or not the security agreement contains a description of the
··1
proceeds.
(2) A security interest created in tangible property before they were commingled in a mass
or product continues in the mass or product. ·
(I) A security interest is perfected when a financing statement in respect of that security Perfection ofsecu1·ity _
interest has been registered in the Collateral Registry established under this Act. interest
(2) For the purposes of this Act, a secured creditor may take possession of the collateral but
mere possession does not perfect the security interest.
(]) A security interest in any proceeds of the collateral is perfected automatically without Perfection of security
any further action by the grantor or the creditor when theyroceecls arise or are acquired imercst in proceeds.
if:
(a) the proceeds are described in the Financing Statement; or
(b) the proceeds are in the form of money, accounts receivables,
negotiable instruments or bank accounts.
(2) If the proceeds are not of the kind covered in the preceding sub section, the security
interest will remain perfected if the creditor registers an amendment adding a description
of the asset that is proceeds within 15 clays after they arose.
PART III-NATIONAL COLLATERAL REGISTRY
0. (1) There is established in the Central Bank, a registry to be known as the National Establish1ne11t of the
Nnlio1rn) eollaleral
Collateral Registry (in this Act referred to as "the Collateral Registry").
registry.
(2) The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria shall appoint a Registrar and such other
staff as may be required for the attainment of the objectives of this Act.
(3) The Registrar shall supervise and administer the operations of the Collateral Registry.,,
1. The Collateral Registry shall: Functions or the
collaleral regislry.
(a) receive, register and store information about security interests in
movable assets;
(b) provide access to persons who may seek information on security
interests from the Collateral Registry; and
(c) perform such other functions as may be prescribed by regulations
made under this Act.
PART IV-REGISTRATION OF FINANCING STATEMENTS
Procedure rc)I'
' (1) A financing statement may be registered by or on behalf of a .creditor at any time with -r~gis\n1~lon of n
the consent of the grantor as required under this Act. financing stntement.
(2) A financing statement is registered when.a unique registration number, date and liine.c _
, ____ ,
are assigned to it by the Collateral Registry.
(3) The Collateral Registry shall, after a financing statement has been registered, issue a
confirmation s_taternent to the creditor who files the financing statement for registration, -
(I) A Registration of an initial financing statement is ineffective unless the Grantor _ Consent to l'egister o
-financing stntement.
consented to it in writing.
(2) A security agreement in accordance with section 4 is sufficient to constitute consent by .
the Grantor for the registration of an initial or amendment financing statement covering
the collateral described therein.
(3) The Grantor may give consent in writing to register a financing statement prior to the
conclusion of a security agreement.
(4 ) Registration of an amendment financing statement is ineffective unless consented to by
the Grantor in writing if the amendment financing statement:
(a) adds a description of new collateral; or
(b) acids a new grantor unless the new grantor is a transferee of the
collateral already described in the registration.
4. (1) A creditor shall provide in a Financing Statement the following information: Conlcnls o/'a
finflncing slalemenl.
(a) Grantor type description: individual, micro, small or large
business;
(b) in the case of a company, co-operative or registered business
name, the uniqLie identification number which shall be the
Corporate Affairs Commission registration number or other
registration number issued by the appropriate authority for
registering these types of debtors;
(c) in the case of an individual, the unique identification number
derived from approved biometric based identification, gender,
name, address including telephone and date of birth;
( d) the name and address of the creditor or its representative;
( e) a description of the collateral;
(f) the maximum amount for which the secured obligation may be
enforced;
(g) the period of time for which the registration is to be effective,
and
(h) such other information as the Registrar may consider necessary.
(2) A financing statement may in addition also identify a borrower according to the
preceding sub section even if that person has not created a securityinterest.
(3) If there is more than one grantor or creditor, the required information must be. entered
in the designated field separately for each grantor or creditor.
(4 ) If the grantor is an individual who is neither a citizen nor a resident of Nigeria, the
secured creditor shall enter the debtor's name and unique identification number that
appear on the Grantor's passport issued by a foreign government or any other document
as the Central Bank of Nigeria may prescribe.
(5) A confirmation that parties have agreed to submit themselves to the mediation and
arbitration mechanism empowered under this Act, as first recourse, in a situation that
any civil dispute arises.
( 1) The Financing Statement must include a description of the collateral that reasonably Dcscriplion or
),
co!!aleral.
allows its identification.
(2) A description of collateral is sufficient if the collateral is.described by:
(a) item, kind, type or category; or
(b) a statement that a security interest is taken ii; all of the Grantor's
· present and after-acquired property; or
(c) any other description that reasonably identifies the collateral.
(3) If a financing statement covers serial-numbered goods, it must contain information of
the serial number, in addition to the information as defined in subsection (2),
(4) Serial-numbered goods that are held as inventory need not be described by a serial
number.
(5) A description of serial-numbered goods held as inventory is sufficient if it satisfies the
requirements of subsection (2).
6. (I) Subject to section 10 of this Act, a registered financing statement shall be ineffective Error in a financing
if there is an error in: statement.
(a) the unique identification number of the Grantor; or
(b) the serial number of the collateral that causes the registration 11ot
to be retrieved in a search.
(2) Where a registered financing statement contains information on multiple grantors or
collaterals, an error in:
(a) the unique identification number of the Grantor shall renderthe
registration ineffective only with respect to that Grantor; or .
(b) the serial number of a collateral shall render the registered
Financing Statement ineffective only with respect to the
collateral identified by such serial number.
7. (1) An errorin: Consequences of oth
errors ln the
registralion.
(a) the name or address of the Grantor;
(b) the maximum amount for which the security interest may be
enforced; or
(c ) the name or address of the creditor,
does not render the registered Financing Statement ineffective.
(2) An error in the collateral description other than in the serial number may render the
registered Financing Statement ineffective with respect to that collateral if the enor
seriously misleads the searcher,
(3) An incorrect description of some collateral shall not render the registered Financing
Statement ineffective with respect to other collaleral sufficiently described.
(4) Au error in other infornrnlion docs not render the regislered Finm1cing Statement
ineffective.
18. (1) The registered Financing Statement shall be valid until: Durnlion ofc1
registered flnnnci/1g
stnlemenl.
(a) the expiration of the term specified in the Financing Statement;
or
(b) its cancellation, whichever comes first.
(2) Duration of a registered financing statement may be renewed or extended by an
amendment of the financing statement before its expiration.
(3) No information shall be deleted from the Registry, whether or not an amendment
financing statement cancelling the registered Financing Statement has been registered.
( 4) An expired registered financing statement shall be maintained in the Registry and
searchable by the public for 6 months following its expiration after which it shall be
kept in the archive.
(5) A cancelled or expired registered financing statement shall be identified as such in a
search.
9. (1) A registered financing statement may be amended by a creditor upon the registration Amendment of a
of an amendment financing statement. l'egislerecl flirnncing
statement.
(2) An amendment to a registered financing statement that adds a collateral or a new
grantor is effective as to the added collateral or the added grantor only from the elate
and time when the amendment financing statement is registered.
(3) An amendment to a registered financing statement shall be accordance with
111
Regulations made under this Act.
J. Where a collateral described in a registered financing statement is transferred and the Unauthorised transfer
secured creditor registers an amendment financing statement adding the transferee as a new of ,1 collateral.
grantor within 15 · days after the Secured Creditor becomes aware of the transfer, the
security interest shall retain its perfection and priority.
(1) A registered financing statement may be cancelled upon the filing of a cancellation Cancellnlio11 ofc1
statement by a creditor. registered nnnncing
stalement,
(2) A creditor shall file a cancellation statement within 15 working clays of receiving a
request for cancellationfrom the Grantor or the Borrower only where:
(a) all obligations under the security agreement have been
performed; and
(b) there is no commitment to make future advances.
(3) The Cancellation Statement shall include:
(a) the registration number of the initial financing statement to
whicl1 the Cancellation Statement relates;
(b) identification of the Creditor authorising the cancellation; and
(c) such other information as may be prescribed by Regulations
made under this Act.
(4 ) Where a creditor fails to comply with the reguest of the Borrower or the Gran tor, .either
the Borrower or the Grantor may appeal to the Registrar showing cause as to why tbe
registered Financing Statement should be cancelled.
(5) The Registrar shall give notice of the appeal referred to in subsection ( 4) to the Creditor
before taking a decision on the appeal.
(6 ) The Creditor shall have a right to respond within 7 clays of the receipt of the notice of
appeal.
(7) The decision of the Registrar on the reguest shall be final and he shall give effe.ctto his
decision.
or
2. (1) A person may conduct a search in the Registry for information provided in registered Search infor111alio1;
in the regi.stl'y.
financing statements according to criteria set in subsection (3) ...
(2) A person who conducts a semch pursuant to sub-section (1) shall be entitled to a search
result upon payment of such fees as may be prescribed by regulations made under this
Act.
(3) The criteria for search under this section shall be:
(a) the unique biometric-based identifier of the Gran tor,
(b) the serial number of the collateral; or
(c) such other criterion as may be prescribed by regulations.
PART V - PRIORITY OF A SECURITY INTEREST
Priorily of security
l. The priority between perfected security interests in the same collateral shall be determined inlercsts.
by the order of registration.
L (.1) Subject to Section 9, the priority of a security interest in a collateral and the proceeds Same priorlly for
originfll collaternl,
derived from the collateral shall be the same. ·
proceeds and
adyances,
(2) A secmity interest shall have the same priority in respect of all secured obligations and
advances, whether existing or future.
25. (!) A secured creditor may transfer a secured obligation notwithstancling any agreernenl Transf(,r cloes nol
Hffec[ pri(irily.
with ihe Grantor or the Borrower limiting the right to transfer the secured obligation ancl
without having to obtain consent of the Grantor or the Borrower.
(2) A security interest that is transfoned shall have the same priority as it had at the time
of the transfer,
(3) Transfer of a security interest perfected by registration is valid without registering an
amendment financing statement in the Registry,
26. (1) A creditor may enter into an agreement to subordinate its priority in favour of any other Voluntary
subordination or
claimant.
priority.
(2) Subordination is effective without registering an amendment financing statement in the
Registry.
(3) An agreement to subordinate shall not adversely affect the rights of a person that is not
a party to the agreement.
!7. A purchase money security interest in a collateral or its proceeds shall have priority over a Priority of purchase
money securi"ly
non-purchase money security interest in the same collateral created b)lihe same Grantor if
inleresl nncl its
the purchase money security interest in the collateral or its proceeds is.JJerfected when the
proceeds.
Grantor obtained possession of the collateral. ·
(1) A perfected security interest in goods that subsequently become part of a product or Pl'iorily ofsecurily
interests~ in prncessec
mass shall continue as a perfected security interest in the proclucfo"i- mass if the goods
or co-minglecl goods
are so manufactured, processed, assembled or co-mingled thattheir identity is lost in
the product or mass.
(2) If more than one Secwity Interest is perfected in the goods before· they become part
of a product or mass, the Security Interests rank equally in proportion to the value of
the goods at the time they became part of the product or mass.
19. (1) A financial institution's right of set-off shall have priority over a perfected security Prlority with 1·espect
receipt oJ'funcls or
interest that extends to a deposit account.
C8Sh.
(2) A transferee of funds from a deposit account or cash other than from a deposit account
takes the funds or cash free of a security interest unless the transferee acts in collusion
with the Grantor or the Bonower in violating the rights of the Creditor.
(3) A transferee of cash for the purpose of this section does not include a bailee.
lO. A lien arising out of materials or services provided in the ordinary course of business in Priority of holders o
liens.
respect of goods that are subject to a security interest shall have J:iriority over that secLirity
interest.
l l. A holder of a negotiable instrument or title document shall have priority over a perfected Priority orholclcrs o
security interest in the negotiable instrument or the title document where the holder: negotiable ins1ru111e1
and title clocumenls.
(<1) gave value;
(b) acguirecl tbe negotiable instrument or the title document without
knowledge that the transaction is in breach of the security
agreement to which the security interest relates; ancl
( c) took possession of the negotiable instrument or the title
document.
2. (1) A buyer or lessee who acquires goods for value and receives possession of the goods Righ ls of a buyer 01·
lessee or goods.
shall take the goods free of an unperfectecl security interest.
(2) A buyer of goods sold in the ordinary course of business of the se11er and a lessee of
goods leased in the ordinary course of business of the lessor shall take the goods free
of a security interest created by the seller or lessor unless the buyer or lessee knows
that the sale or the lease constitutes a breach of the security agreement under which the
security interest was created.
3. (]) The rights of an assignee ofan account receivable shall be subject to: Rights an_cl priority o!
assignee,
(a) the terms of the contract between the account debtor and the
assignor and any defence or claim arising from the contract; and
(b) any other defence or claim of the account debtor against the
assignor, including a defence by way of a right of set-off that
accrues before the account debtor receives nolification of the
assignment.
(2) Subsection (1) of this section shall not apply if the account debtor has made an
enforceable agreement not to assert any right to claims arising out of the contract.
(3) Priority between competing assignees is determined according to the time of
registration in the Registry irrespective of the time when the account debtor receives
a notification of the assignment.
4. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of the Sherriff and Civil Process Act, a perfected Priority ofjuclgment
creel itor.
security interest has priority over the rights of an unsecured creditor that has obtained
Cap. S6, LPN, 200'1,
a judgment or an order of attachment, unless the judgment creditor, before the security
interest is perfected:
(a) registers a financing statement;
(b) seizes the co !lateral; or
( c) serves a notice of its claim on the third party holding property
for the debtor.
(2) The priority of the security interest extends to credit disbursed by the creditor:
(a) bdosc the expiry of thirty (30) clays after the jllClgment creditor
notified the creditor that it had taken (he steps referred to in
subsection(!); or
(b) pursuant to an irrevocable commitment in a fixed amount
without any limitation if the commitment was made before the
judgment creditor notified the creditor.
PART VI- RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF A GRANTOR, BORROWER AND CREDITOR
Good foith
35. (I) All rights and duties that arise under this Act shall be exercised and discharged in good commercial
faith and in accordance with reasonable commercial standards, rensonnbleness,
(2) A person does not act in bad faith merely because he acts with !mow ledge of the security
interest of some other person, unless he knows that his actions would violate rights of
the other person.
(3) A person in possession of an encumbered asset shall preserve the asset from damage,
impairment and loss, excluding fair wear and tear having regard to the nature of the
asset.
6. Where a person fails to discharge a duty or obligation imposed by this Act, the person to Entitlement lo
damnges.
whom the duty or obligation is owed shall have a right to recover damages for any loss or
damage.
7. (1) A creditor shall, not later than 15 working clays after the day on which the confirmation Creclitor to provide
con1'ir111atio11 st8le11ie1
statement of the registration was received, provide the Grantor and the Borrower a copy
to the grantor ancl the
of the Confirmation Statement.
borrower.
(2) The Confirmation Statement may be sent in the same mmmerprescribecl for giving
notices under section 40 (2) of this Act.
8. (1) A grantor or borrower may request the Creditor to make available to any person, at an Provision oJ' certain
·111fom1nlion by n
address specified by the Grantor or the Borrower, any or all of the following:
creditor.
(a) a summm-y of the Security Agreement;
(b) a statement in writing, of the amount of the indebtedness and the
terms of payment of the indebtedness;
(c) an itemised list of the Collateral, unless the Security Interest
covers all the movable assets of the Grantor; or
(d) a statement of account indicating the amount needed to fully
satisfy the secured obligation.
(2) Where a creditor no longer has an interest in the obligation secured or.collateral covered
by the registration, the Creditor shall disclose, the name find address of the immediate
successor in interest or transferee and the latest successor in interest or transferee, if
!mown.
(3) A crcdilor shall comply with the request in sub-section (l) within 10 working days of
its receipt
(4) A creditor may only charge the Grantor or the Borrower the reasonable co:sts for
providing the information and the Grantor or the Borrower shall be entitled to one
response free of charge every 6 months,
PART VII-REALISATION OF SECURITY INTERESTS
Scope o/' Lhe
3 9. (1) In case of default, a creditor may: applicrition of thi:
(a) exercise his rights under this Act and in the Security Agreement;
or
(b) resort to any appropriate judicial remedy.
(2) An operating lessor may enforce its rights under the agreement or any other law
governing the operating lease.
(3) A holder of purchase money security interest may enforce its rights under this Acl_ or ·
any other law governing its rights,
(4) An outright transferee of account receivable may enforce its rights under an agreen1ent
or any other law governing the transaction. · · · · ·· · ·
(5) The remedies available under this Part are in addition to those available under The
Companies and Allied Matters Act, including the right to appoint a receiver.
Cap. C20. LPN, 201
40. (]) In case of default by a borrower, a creditor shall give the borrower and the Grantor a Repossession of'
collnleniL
notice of the default ai1d intention to repossess the collateral.
(2) The notice referred to in subsection (1) may be delivered by:
(a) hand;
(b) courier service;
( c) electronic mail;
( d) registered mail; or
( e) any other means agreed to under the Security Agreement.
(3) The Creditor may, l O days after sending the notice of default:
(a) take possession of the Collateral; or
(b) without taking possession, render the Collateral inoperative.
(4) A crcdilor may repossess a collateral under this Act:
(a) pursuant to judicial process; or
(6) without . judicial process, if tbe Grantor consented to
relinquishing possession without a court order in the Security
Agreement.
(5 ) In the case of repossession without judicial process, a· creditor may request for ·
assistance from the Nigeria Police having authority within the location of the colJateraL ··
(6) The Nigeria Police shall provide assistance for the peaceable repossession of the.
al'
collateral, upon presentation by the creditor of a copy· the relevant security
agreement and duly certified confirmation statement.
(7) A creditor may require a grantor to assemble the collateral ai1d make it available at a
designated place, · ·· ··
41. (]) There is established under this Act a Mediation and Dispute Resolution Panel (in this Es!ablishmenl of,:
meclic1lion rn1cl disJ
Act referred to as "the Panel").
1·esolution prn1cl.
(2) The Panel shall serve as the first resource for mediation and.settlement over any civil
dispute which may arise between the Creditor and th,; Grantm in the course of
implementing this Act.
(3) The Governor shall issue guidelines that will set out the mocl~lities and regulate the
functioning of the Panel: · ·
Provided, that in exercising the power granted in subsection (3), the Governor shall ensure
that three (3) persons shall constitute the membership of any panel set up to arbitrate on any
civil dispute under this Act. · · · ··
2. A creditor may render a collateral inoperative if the Collateral is of a Jcind that cannot be Creditor may render
co/!titcrn! inopcrntive
easily moved from the Grantor's premises or is of a kind for which adequate storage
facilities are not easily available.
l. (]) A creditor may collect and apply an account receivable, money or a negotiable Creditor nrny co!/cct
account receivable.
instnm1ent taken as collateral to the satisfaction of the obligation secured by the
secmity interest if the Grantor or the Borrower is in default.
(2) The secured creditor may notify the account debtor and colJect payment even prior to
default.
(]) A creditor may dispose of a collateral by sale, lease, licence or other form of disposal Credltor may dispose
ofn colJateni.l.
in its present condition or following any commercially reasonable preparation or
processing,
(2) A creditor may sell a collateral in an auction, public tender, private sale or any other
method provided for in the Security Agreement.
(3) In exercising the power of sale, a creditor shall obtain a reasonable price available al
the time of the sale or disposal.
(4) A creditor may dispose of a collateral on the Grantor's premises provided that it shall
not cause any pernon in possession of the premises, other than the Grantor, any serious
inconvenience.
(1) A creditor who intends to sell a collateral shall not less than 10 working days before Notice of sale ol'
collateral.
selling the collateral, send notice in the manner stipulated in section 40 (2} of this Actto
the following:
(a) the Borrower;
(b) the Grantor; and
(c) any other creditor who has registered a financing statement in
respect of the collateral before the Creditor repossessed the
Collateral.
(2) Subsection (1) shall not apply where:
(a) the Collateral may perish within 10 working clays of the
repossession;
(b) the Creditor believes on reasonable grounds that the Collateral
will decline substantially in value if it is not disposed of
immediately;
( c) the cos\ of care and storage of the Collateral is disproportionately
large in relation to its value; or
( cl) the Collateral consists of inventory or farm products.
If the collateral has been sold under this part, all security interests in the collateral that are Discharge of
subordinate security
subordinate to the security interest of the Creditor who sold the Collateral shall be
inlerests.
discharged.
·. A creditor shall, within 15 working days after the sale of a collateral, give to the persons Credilor to give
entitled to receive a notice of sale, a statement of accmmt in writing, stating the: stnlemenl of rLCcounl.
(a) amount realized from the sale;
(b) amount of the costs of the sale; and
( c) balance due to the Grantor or to the Creditor, as the case may be.
s.
(1) A creditor who has sold a collateral, shall, before applying the amount realized from Dislribl1tio11 o!'
the sale towards the satisfaction of the debt or other obligation secured by Lhe Security proueecls of sale.
Interest, apply the proceeds of the sale towards the reasonable costs and expenses of the
sale, and to the ex lent provided for in an agreement other reasoriable expenses.
(2) The Creditor shall pay the following persons any surplus accrued from the sale in the
following order:
(a) creditors who have a subordinate security interest perfected by
registration, in the order of their priority; ancl
(b) the Grantor.
(3) A creditor may pay the surplus into the Court if there is a dispute as to who is entitled
to receive payment pending a resolution of the matter.
( 4) A botTower remains liable for any outstanding financial liabilities.
19. ( 1) At any time before a creditor sells the collateral, the Borrower, Gran tor, or other creditor Right to reclee111 tJ·
may redeem the collateral by: col Intern I,
(a) fulfillment of all the obligations secured by the Collateral; and
(b) payment of any other reasonable expenses incurred by the
Creditor.
(2) A grantor's right to redeem the collateral shall have priority over any other person's
right of redemption.
:o. (1) At any time before a creditor sells the collateral, a borrower may reinstate the.Security Reinstatement
security agrecmcnl.
Agreement by:
(a) paying the sums owed;
(b) remedying any other default; and
( c) paying a sum equal to the reasonable expenses incurred by the
Creditor.
(2) Unless otherwise agreed, a borrower shall not be entitled to reinstate a security
agreement more than twice in each year.
PART VIII - APPLICABLE LAW AND CONFLICT OF LAW
Applic<1ble low.
1. (1) The law applicable to the creation, perfection and priority of a security interest in
tangible property when the tangible asset is located in Nigeria is .this Act
(2) If the tangible asset is of a type ordinmily used in more than one country, this Act
applies if the Grantor is located in Nigeria.
(3) The law applicable to the creation, perfection and priority of a security interest in an
intangible asset when the Grantor is located in Nigeria is this Act.
(4) The law applicable to the creation, perfection and priority of security interest in
proceeds is the law applicable to the creation, perfection and priority of the security
interest in the original collateral from which the proceeds arose.
(5) The law applicable to issues relating to the enforcement of a security interest in tangible
goods is the law of the state where enforcement takes place. ··· ·· ··
(6) The law applicable to issues relating to the enforcement of a security interest in
intangible assets is the law of the state where the Grantor is located.
i2. The law applicable to the mutual rights and obligations of the grantor, the borrower and the Lnw governing the
secu1·ity Hg1·ee111enl.
secured party arising from their security agreement is the law chosen by the parties uncl, .in
the absence of a choice of law, the law governing the security agreement.
;3, The commencement of insolvency proceedings under the relevant insolvency laws does not Insolvency
proceedings,
displace the conflict of law's provisions that determine the law applicable to the creation,
perfection, priority and enforcement of a security interest.
4. The provisions of the Stamp Duties Act shall not apply to any secured transactions subject Non~applicnbility of
under this Act. ·· · Stamp Duties Act
Cop. S8, Lr-N. 200,1.
5. (1) For the purposes of this Act, the Grantor is located in Niger.iaifit has a place of business Genera!.
in Nigeria. ·
(2) If the grantor does not have a place of business, reference is to be made to the habitual
residence of the grantor.
(3) The location of the property or of the Grantor shall be determined, for creation
purposes, at the time of the creation of the security interest and, for perfection and
_priority purposes, at the time the issue arises.
6. Any action or proceeding as between parties arising out of a transaction governed by this Jurisdiction.
Act shall be actionable in a court within any State of the Federation vested with jurisdiction
to entertain commercial borrower and lender claims: · · ·
Provided that nothing in this section shall derogate from the exclusive jlirisdiction vested in
the Federal High Court under the Constitution of the Federal Reptiblic of Nigeria, 1999,
PART IX- MISCELLANEOUS
Fees ancl chnrgcs.
7. The Registrar shall fix, impose and review such fees and other charges for services of the
Registry as may be specified by regulations made under this Act.
8. (1) A person who, being required to supply information for the registration, amendment Offences and
or cancellation of a financing statement under this Act, knowingly provides a false or penalties,
misleading information to the Registry, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to:
(a) a term of imp1·isonment for 1 year or a fine of NI 00,000.00, or
both; and in addition, where he has by his conduct benefrttecl
finuncially, shall fully indemnify the Registry and the person
affected by his conduct; and
(b) in the case ofa corporation, partnership or other entity:
(i) the Court may impose the penalty referred to in paragraph (a) on every
officer of the corporation, partnership or entity found to have
facilitated or to have been personally responsible for the offence, and
(ii) the corporation, partnership or entity shall be liable to a fine of
Nl ,000,000.00.
(2) If a grantor against whom a financing statement has been registered sells or otherwise
disposes the asset to a third party without disclosing the fact ofei1cu111brance, comri1its
an offence and is liable on conviction: · ·
(a) to a term of imprisonment of 1 year or a fine ofNl00,000.00, or
both; and
(b) where the offender has by his conduct benefitted financia]]y, he
shall, in addition to the fine and term of impriso1m1e1it specified
in paragraph (a), fully indemnify the Registry and the person
affected by his conduct.
(3) In this section, "false or misleading information" means the entry of information of
facts required to assure the public of the truth and accrfracy"of the information by a
person who knew that the entry is false in any material ,particular or is recklessly
neglectful of the duty to ensure the truth or accuracy of the information supplied by
that person.
9. All offences under this Act shall be tried by a court of competentjurisdiction in the place Cr!1~1i1rnl .i uriscl iction.
where the offence is alleged to have been committed.
0. A person aggrieved by any decision or action of the Registry may, within 60 working days Grievance procedmc.
of the decision, give notice to the Registry addressed to the Registrar, to address the
grievance and if no response or satisfactory response is obtained within 30 working days,
the aggrieved person may appeal to the Court for judicial deterrniiiation.
1. The Registrar may make rules and issue guidelines for the proper administration of the Rules flncl guiclelines.
Registry.
2. ( 1) Security interests in movable assets created before the coming into effect of this Act Tnmsitiona!
provisions,
shall continue to remain valid and effective on the terms and conditions agreed to by the
Grnntor and Creditor.
(2) Security interests in movable assets created by a grantor under the Central Bank of
Nigeria (Registration of Secririty Interests in Movable Property by Banks and Other
Financial Institutions in Nigeria) (Regulations, No. 1, 2015) shall continue to remain
valid and effective and be deemed to have been entered into under this Act if the
transaction is still current and subsisting upon the corning into effect of this Act.
(3) Transactions creating secw'ity interests referred to in subsections (2), shall be valicl only
For a period of 180 clays after the commencement of this Ac(, unless financing
statements in respect of those transactions are registered and brought into compliance
with the provisions of this Act before the expiration of the period,
53, (1) In this Act: lnte1·pretation.
"Account Receivable" means a right to receive value arising from an obligation owed
0
by an account debtor to the grantor including book debts but excluding a negotiable
instrument;
"Amendment Financing Statement" means a form in which information is entered to
update the initial financing statement;
"Borrower" means a person to whom credit is extended with a financial obligation to
repay under a Security Agreement;
"Central Bank" means Ce11tral Bm1k of Nigeria;
"Registrar" means the Registrar of the Collateral Registry;
"Collateral" means movable property, whether tangible or intangible, that is subject to
a security interest;
"Confirmation Statement" means a certificate issued_ by -the Collateral Registry
confirming the registration number, date and time of a registration;
"Consumer Goods" means goods that the debtor uses or intends to use primarily for
personal, family or household purpose;
"Creditor" refers to the person granting a facility on the back of a security interest
created under this Act;
"Equipment" means machinery or other capital goods used in the operation of the
grantor's business;
"Fann Products·" include:
(a) crops grown, growing, or to be grown;
(b) fish stocks;
( c) livestock, poultry and their unborn offspring;
(d ) seeds, fertilizers, manure and supplies used or produced in a
farming operation; and
(e) products of crops and livestock in their unprocessed states;
·'·l
"Financial Institution" means banks, bucly association or grol1p of persons, whether
corporate or incorporate which carries on the business of investment ancl securities,. a
· discount house, fosurance institutions, debt factorization ancl convention firms, bureau ..
cle change, finance company, primary m01tgage institutions, money brokerage firm
whose principal business includes factoring, project financing; equipment leasing, debt
aclministration, fund management, private ledger service, investment management, local
purchase order, financing export finance, project consulta11cy, financial consultancy,
.pension funds management a11d such other business as the· Central Bank,· or other
appropriate regulatory authorities may designate;
"Finance Lease" means a lease which transfers ownership of the asset to the lessee at
the end of the lease term;
"Financing Statement" means the prescribed forms on which information is provided to
effect a registration under this Act or any regulation made hereunder; · ·
"Goods" mea11s tangible movable property and include farm products, inventory,
equipment, consumer goods, trees that have been severed and oil, gas or minerals that
have been extracted;
"Governor" means Goven:10r of the Central Bank of Nigeria;
"Grantor" means a person that has rights in the collateral, and includes a grantor of any
type of security interest in the form of 11 charge, chattel mortgage, pledge or lien in
movable property;
"Initial Financing Statement" means financing statement in the prescribed form that a
person originally submits to the Collateral Registry for registration; ·
"Initial Financing Statement Registration Number" means the number assigned to the
initial financing statement by the Collateral Registry on its registration that is
permanently associated with such financing statement; ·
"Inventory" means goods that are:
(a) held for sale or lease in the ordinary course of business; and
(b) raw materials or work in progress;
"Movable Assets" mea11s tangible or intangible property other than real property;
"Operating Lease" means an agreement between two parties whereby the lessor allows
the lessee to use its asset for a specific period of time in exchange for periodic fees;
"Proceeds" means identifiable or traceable movable asset received as a result of sale,
other disposition, collection, lease or licence of the collateral, including natural fruits,
distributions, insurance payments and claims arising from defects in, damage to or
loss of collateral;
"Purchase Money Security Interest" mem1s:
(a) a right in collaleral taken or retained by the selJer lo secure all or
part of its purchase price;
(b) a right taken by a person who provides credit to enable the
granter to acquire the grantor to acquire the collateral .if such
credit is in fact so used; and
(c ) a right of a financial lessor.
"Registration" means the processing of a financing statement to bring it in compliance
with the requirements of this Act;
"Registry" means the Collateral Registry established under section IO(!) of this Act;
"Security Agreement" means an agreement in any form and howsoever entitled entered
into between the grantor and creditor that creates a security interest under this Act;
"Security Interest" means a property right in collateral that is createdbyagreement an.cl
secures payment or other performance of an obligation, regardless of whether the parties ·
have denominated it as a security interest but it does not include a personal right against
a guarantor or other person liable for the performance of the secured obligation;
"Serial-numbered Goods" means movable property that have a serial or iclentificati_on
number permanently marked on or attached to its body frame_ by the manufacturei
limited to motor vehicles, planes, and boats that are not held as inventory;
"Serial Number" means an identification number marked or attached to the body frame
of a movable property by the manufacturer;
(2) For the pmvoses of this Act, the determination of whether goods are consumer goods,
equipment, farm products or Inventory is to be made at the time when the Security
Agreement is concluded and the Creditor may rely on the representations of the Granter
as to the intended use,
This Act may be cited as the Secured Transactions in Movable Assets Act, 201 7, Short title,
I, CERTIFY, IN ACCORlJAr,;cE WnTr SECTION 2 (1) OF .. 'fHE ACTS
AUTHKNTICA'rION ACT CAP. A2, LAv\lS OF TH!f FEDERATION OJI i\1GERJA 2004,
1
THAT THIS IS A TR.VE COPV OF TH1S DILL PASSED BY BOTH HOUSES OF THE
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
JVI 10 i-:LA.1V§ f:/JE f) · . ~ , I ., _ ,'.. _ '.', ... , '" , , " . . , . . ., / , ~ . ~ ; · " " : - ] , ' , _ 1 . . . ':. . . _ j' -~ . 1 ,. · . · , , i _ J , " _ j ' J' '/. - ·1 , - i r ) , " j : _ 1 . __.J Q ·' .: , .)L._ , •,~' .. ·1 •.
.
,,.;._
''Jc,"'
DAYOF/VJJ,Y,2017
-------------------------------------------------····---,. ------------------------------------------------
,,
,,
~
11
II
:;~111n.·,t
Schtdu!e 1<> Ji;,· Tr,rn:,;i!rlimi:; in Mnnible Assets Bill, 2!JJ'/
.-~- ----··-·-·
SHORT TITLE OF I iilNG TITLE Of TH El!/ l 11,.! f~(l1\ ir,IAPY Of< TIIE DATE PASSED DAT EP ASS ED BY
THE BILL ~ C(ll'l TENT:;: OF T!IE BILL BY TU[~ SENATE THE l:IOUSE or
1i
REPRESENTATIVES
l
'.l
,:urfc1 ..
Secured Ait Act to prn1ide for :~; This Bill Jll<lVides Cor seemed 251 h May, 2017 ' 251 h /vlav -7017
_,:;
Transactions in . . . d j
tn1t1sacti.0ns, 1:eg1str~1!.1rn;1 q~c l'ran, ;acti611s" registration and
Movable Assets Bill,
2017. 1 regulation of securitv ink! 1 :·-:;tsl h .ti , _ n rei.2_1 lp(iun ul securily interests in
" , • ', -, '! 1 I ~
n1nvable asse!s; and · ror l ('lat d ill()\. ~1blc :.1s::;c!:">.
m:ilters. :~
1
,;
:~
1
L__ _______ J ·-- ----- -- --- _ 1_,,J _ __ _ _ -·----- -- _J
l ''.' <,l\ d~rn.,, n,ll h,'> km ca cc foll, '"'"I'·" ,<I I, "« ""' , hm, ''" , ""'" <I he lh, I fa<«•rn I Ass• mbl, '"' fmmd by ""_ "' bdn«
anu COlleCt dcc1s10n u! 1lll' l 1ouses and 1s 1n oc(~l11,1;:,,, ct ,:h lhc ]HO\ 1':;](_111' 1'! the Ads ,\ulht".n11c1llnn ,\cl(. J ;:i_ p A , 2 /, , : ; L : c tv,,;s ol the l- 0 ederat1on
of Nigeria, 2004 i . ,.,,.
L1, -~. __ ,......-:
I [/
' i ,
,.:,L-_1,1../ ~·· ' -
\; lVIOHAl\ll\lED 1:\TABA SANI-OiV!OLORl
- \s
\ \:·'. \ \ _ /, CltTk to the National Asse1nhly
~.
r::_' .. \r1'. . .·.\'.·.) <'."'.·1 .. C'CUl'~ c C ;: ) [ / · ) ·r&;n,.. ,yofl\!a)',2lll7 ,
Cf'l\_\ \ \:;I Sni(},f>,. ' r '[-''": l -~ 11· \' '\ ~ tJ1ql!._f\C>
r . I\_ {- { \l!i c l }f1 ... l. . fl _ . ft s , \ ·- .l ..! \llUol~ "1- ':1 . -,
A.-c!f\•\() ~ ,e.tt&lln, Cl.
, 1.J 2) t){t-. b:,a,\\ Cl\ e f i\r•' R\ 1 ';t O I l
I ASSENT l\1lH1Al\H,1ADU BUHARl, GCFR
Pn'sident of the rcdcral Republic ofNi.gcri.a
Pay orMaY, ?fll7
