CAP.TI4
Trade Unions Act
CHAPTER T14
TRADE UNIONS ACT
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
PART I
Trade Unions
Registration oftrade combinations as Trade Unions
SECTION
I. Meaning ofvtrade union" inthis Act.
2. Unregistered trade unions prohibited from functioning.
3. Application for registration of trade union.
4. Matters tobe provided tor inregistered rules.
5. Procedure on receipt ofapplication for registration.
6. Restrictions asregards names of trade unions.
7. Cancellation of registration.
8. Proceedings on appeal against refusal or cancellation of registration.
9. Compulsory dissolution oftrade union incertain circumstances.
10. Voluntary dissolution oftrade union.
General provisions affecting trade unions
II. Members ofarmed forces, police, etc., prohibited from'forming orjoining trade union.
12. Membership of trade union not to be restricted on discriminatory grounds.
13. Persons convicted of certain offences disqualified from holding office inatrade union.
14. Restriction on the number of trade unions of which aperson may be an official.
15. Trade union dues not to be applied for political purposes.
16. Trade union funds not to be used for certain proceedings.
17. Deduction from wages of union members.
18. Payment oftrade union dues to the Federation ofTrade Unions.
19. Injunction to restrain misapplication of funds of trade union.
20. Membership of persons under 21 years ofage.
21. Registered oflice of trade union.
22. Copies ofrules to be sold on demand.
Benefits ofregistration
23. Trade unions not unlawful assuch.
24. Prohibitions of actions intort against trade unions.
25. Recognition of registered trade union obligatory.
26. Right ofmember to nominate recipients of sums of payable on death.
Change ofname, merger, and alteration ofrules oftrade unions
27. Change of name oftrade union.
Tl4-J [Issue 2]
CAP. T14
Trade Unions Act
28. Merger of trade unions.
29. Alteration of rulers of trade unions.
PART /I
Federations of Trade Unions
30. Formation of Federation of Trade Unions.
31. Admission of further trade unions to membership of registered federation.
32. Application ofcertain provisions of Part Ito Federations ofTrade Unions at atime.
33. No person to hold office inmore than one Federation ofTrades Unions atthe same time.
PART JII
Federation of Trade Unions
[2005 No. 17.]
34.
[2005 No. 17.]
35. Powers of Federation ofTrade Unions and application of certain provisions of Part I.
36. Admission of further bodies to membership of Federation of Trade Unions.
PART IV
Accounts and returns ofregistered bodies
37. Annual returns.
38. Duty of treasurer and other officials to render accounts.
39. Copies of audited accounts to be sent to the Registrar.
40. Power of Registrar to call for accounts at any time.
41. Investigation of unsatisfactory accounts by Registrar.
42. Power of Registrar to institute proceedings on behalf of registered body in certain circum-
stances.
PART V
Miscellaneous andgeneral provisions
43. Peaceful picketing.
44. Certain acts not actionable intort ifincontemplation or furtherance of trade dispute.
45. Companies, etc., Act not toapply to bodies registerable under this Act.
46. The Registrar ofTrade Unions.
47. Certain matters to be notitied inGazette.
48. Penalty for issuing false copies of rules of registered body.
49. Penalty for including false information inany document sent to Registrar.
50. General penalty for offences against this Act.
51. Jurisdiction.
52. Validity of act not to be enquired into.
53. Regulations.
54. Interpretation.
55. Repeals and transitional provisions.
56. Short title.
[Issue2] T14 - 2
CAP. TI4
Trade Unions Act
SCHEDULES
FIRSTSCHEDULE
Matters tobeprovided for inrules oftrade unions
SECONDSCHEDULE
Repeals
THIRD SCHEDULE
PARrA
List ofre-structured trade unions affiliated tothe Federation of Trade Unions
PARTS
Thejurisdictional scope ofeach ofthe restructured trade unions
PARTC
Senior staffand employers' associations
CHAPTERT14
TRADE UNIONS ACT
An Act to make Provisions with respect to the formation, registration and organiza-
tion of trade unions, and the Federation of Trade Unions.
[1973 No.3!. L.N. 62 of 1973, 2005 No. 17.]
[1st November, 1973]
[Commencement. ]
PART I
Trade Unions
Registration oftrade combinations as Trade Unions
1. Meaning of "trade union" in this Act
(I) Inthis Act-
"trade union" means any combination of workers or employers, whether temporary
or permanent, the purpose of which isto regulate the terms and conditions of employment
of workers, whether the combination in question would or would not, apart from this Act,
be an unlawful combination by reason of any of its purposes being in restraint of trade,
and whether itspurposes do or do not include the provision of benefits for itsmembers.
T14-3 (Issue 2]
CAP. T14
Trade Unions Act
(2) The fact that a combination of workers or employers has purposes or powers other
than the purpose of regulating the terms and conditions of employment of workers shall
not prevent it from being registered under this Act; and accordingly, subject to the provi-
sions of this Act as to the application of funds for political purposes, a trade union may
apply its funds for any lawful purpose for the time being authorised by its rules, including
inparticular, ifso authorised, that of providing benefits for itsmembers.
(3) A trade union within the meaning of this Act shall not be treated as having been
formed by reason only of-
(a) any agreement between an employer and persons employed by him as to the
terms and conditions of that employment; or
(b) any agreement for the instruction of any person ina profession, trade or handi-
craft; or
(c) any agreement between partners as to their own business or any trading agree-
ment between employers; or
(d) any agreement imposing restrictions in connection with the sale of the goodwill
of a business.
2. Unregistered trade union prohibited from functioning
(I) A trade union shall not perform any act infurtherance of the purposes for which it
has been formed unless ithas been registered under this Act:
Provided that nothing inthis subsection shall prevent atrade union from taking any
steps (including the collection of subscriptions or dues) which may be necessary for the
purpose of getting the union registered.
(2) Where a trade union registered under this Act ceases to be so registered, it shall
not thereafter perform any act infurtherance of its purposes:
Provided that nothing inthis subsection shall prevent atrade union from taking any
steps which may be necessary for the purpose of dissolving the union.
(3) Ifany act which is prohibited by subsection (1) or (2) of this section, is performed
by atrade union, then-
(a) the union and every official thereof; and
(b) any member thereof who, not being an official thereof, took any active part in
the performance of that act,
shall be guilty of an offence against this Act.
3. Application for registration of trade union
(1) An application for the registration of a trade union shall be made to the Registrar
inthe prescribed form and shall be signed-
(a) in the case of a trade union of workers, by at least fifty members of the union;
and
[Issue 2) TI4 - 4
CAP. T14
Trade Unions Act
(b) in the case of a trade union of employers, by at least two members of the
union.
(2) No combination of workers or employers shall be registered as a trade union save
with the approval of the Minister on his being satisfied that it is expedient to register the
union either by regrouping existing trade unions, registering a new trade union or other-
wise howsoever, but no trade union shall be registered to represent workers or employers
in aplace where there already exists atrade union.
[1978 No. 22.)
(3) No staff recognised as a projection of management within the management struc-
ture of any organisation shall be a member of or hold office in a trade union (whether or
not the members of that trade union are workers of a rank junior, equal or higher than his
own) ifsuch membership or of the holding of such office in the trade union will lead to a
conflict of his loyalties to either the union or to the management.
(4) For the purposes of subsection (3) of this section, a person may be recognised as a
projection of management within a management structure if his status, authority, powers,
duties and accountability which are reflected in his conditions of service are such as nor-
mally inhere in a person exercising executive authority (whether or not delegated) within
the organisation concerned.
[1979 No. 86.]
(5) Every application made pursuant to subsection (I) above shall state the name
under which it is proposed that the trade union to which it relates shall be registered and
the address of the office which, ifthe union is registered, is to be the registered office.
(6) Every such application shall be accompanied by two copies of the rules of the
union, and by a list showing-
[1978 No. 22.]
(a) the name, address, age and occupation of each of the persons by whom the
application is signed; and
(b) the official title, name, address, age, and occupation of each official of the
union.
4. Matters to be provided for in registered rules
(I) Every trade union shall have registered rules, which shall contain provisions with
respect to the various matters mentioned in the First Schedule of this Act.
[First Schedule.]
(2) Accordingly, the Registrar-
(a) shall not register a trade union unless ithas rules which contain such provisions
as aforesaid; and
(b) if he registers a trade union, shall at the time register its rules.
5. Procedure on receipt ofapplication for registration
(I) Where an application for the registration of a trade union is received by the Re-
gistrar, the following provisions of this section shall apply:
Tl4-5 [Issue tJ
CAP.T14
Trade Unions Act
Provided that if the application appears to the Registrar to be defective in any re-
spect, he shall notify the applicant accordingly and shall take no further action in relation
thereto until the application has been amended to his satisfaction or a fresh application is
made in place thereof.
(2) The Registrar shall cause a notice of the application to be published in the Federal
Gazette, stating that objections to the registration of the trade union in question may be
submitted to him in writing during the period of three months beginning with the date of
the Gazette in which the notice is published.
(3) Within three months after the end of the said period of three months the Registrar
shall consider any objections submitted to him during that period and, ifsatistied-
(a) that no proper objection has been raised;
(b) that none of the purposes of the trade union is unlawful; and
(c) that the requirements of this Act and of the Regulations with respect to the
registration of trade unions have been complied with,
shall, subject to subsection (2) of this section, and to section 6 of this Act, register the
trade union and its rules.
(4) The Registrar shall not register the trade union if it appears to him that any exist-
ing trade union is sufficiently representative of the interests of the class of persons whose
interest the union is intended to represent.
(5) If the Registrar refuses to register the union-
(a) he shall forthwith send to the applicants a notice in the prescribed form to that
effect, stating the grounds of refusal and specifying the date from which the
time for appealing against the refusal is to run, and shall publish a notice to the
like effect in the Federal Gazette; and
(b) any official or member of the union may, within the period of thirty days be-
ginning with the date so specified, appeal to the Minister against the refusal.
[1996 No.26.]
(6) The Registrar on registering a trade union shall issue a certificate of registration
which, unless it is proved that the registration of the union has been cancelled, shall (ex-
cept in any proceedings for the cancellation of the registration of the union on the ground
that its registration was obtained by fraud or as the result of a mistake) be conclusive evi-
dence that the requirements of this Act and Regulations with respect to the registration of
trade unions have been complied with, and that the trade union is authorised to be regis-
tered and is a trade union for the purposes of this Act.
[1999 No. I.J
(7) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act, the Registrar, shall
on the coming into effect of this section of this Act, register the trade unions specified in
Part A and Part C of the Third Schedule to this Act; and on such registration the said
trade unions shall have all the powers and duties of a trade union registered under this
Act.
[1999 No. I.Third Schedule.]
[Issue I] T[4-6
CAP. Tl4
Trade Unions Act
6. Restrictions as regards names of trade unions
(I) A trade union shall not be registered under a name identical with that of any exist-
ing trade union or so nearly resembling the name of any existing trade union as to be
likely to deceive the members or the public.
(2) A trade union shall not be registered under aname containing any words which, in
the opinion of the Registrar, are deceptive or objectionable in that they contain a refer-
ence (direct or indirect) to any personage, practice or institution, or are otherwise unsuit-
able as name for atrade union.
(3) [fthe Registrar refuses to register a trade union on the ground that the name under
which itdesires to be registered is, by virtue of subsection (2) of this section, not one un-
der which it should be registered, any official or member of the union may require the
matter to be referred to the Minister; and the decision of the Minister on such a reference
shall be final.
(4) Where on a reference under subsection (3) of this section, the Minister decides
that a particular trade union may be registered under a certain name, the union may be
registered under that name notwithstanding subsection (2) of this section.
(5) The foregoing provisions of this section shall, with the necessary modifications,
apply inrelation to-
(a) any proposed alteration of the name of the trade union; and
(b) any proposal to form a new trade union by the amalgamation of two or more
existing trade unions,
as they apply inrelation to the original registration of atrade union.
7. Cancellation of registration
(I) Subject to the provisions of this section and of section 10(2) of this Act, the Reg-
istrar shall cancel the registration of atrade union if itisproved to his satisfaction-
(a) that the registration of the union was obtained by fraud or as the result of a
mistake; or
(b) that any of the purposes of the union isunlawful; or
(c) that after receipt of a warning in writing from the Registrar, the union has de-
liberately contravened or continued to contravene any provision of this Act or
the Regulations; or
(d) the principal purpose for which the union is in practice being carried on is a
purpose other than that of regulating the terms and conditions of employment
of workers; or
(e) the union though still inexistence, has ceased to function; or
(j) the union has ceased to exist.
T14-7 [Issue 2)
CAP.T14
Trade Unions Act
(2) Where the Registrar proposes to cancel the registration of a trade union under
subsection (I) of this section, he shall send to the trade union at its registered office a
notice inthe prescribed fonn-
(a) stating that he proposes to cancel the registration of the union, and specifying
briefly the ground or grounds on which he proposes to do so;
(b) specifying a date not less than two months after the date of the notice and stat-
ing that unless before that date he is satisfied that the registration ought not to
be cancelled, he will proceed to cancel the registration on the expiration of the
period of thirty days beginning with that date unless an appeal against the pro-
posed cancellation isbrought within that period.
(3) Where-
(a) the Registrar has sent a notice under subsection (2) of this section to a trade
union; and
(b) the trade union is still inexistence on the date specified inthe notice; and
(c) the Registrar has not withdrawn the notice before that date,
any official or member of the trade union may, within the period of thirty days beginning
with that date appeal to the appropriate court against the proposed cancellation.
[1996 No. 26. 1999 No. I.]
(4) The Registrar shall not cancel the registration of a trade union under this section
before the expiration of the period of thirty days beginning with the date specified in the
notice under subsection (2) of this section; and ifan appeal against the proposed cancella-
tion is brought during that period, he shall not cancel the registration unless the appeal is
abandoned or the proposed cancellation is confirmed on the final determination of the
appeal.
(5) A trade union whose registration is cancelled under this section shall, as from the
date of the cancellation, cease to enjoy the privileges conferred by this Act on trade un-
ions; but any liability incurred by the union before that date shall not be affected by the
cancellation and may be enforced against the union on or after that date as ifthe cancella-
tion had not taken place.
(6) On cancelling the registration of a trade union under this section, the Registrar
shall send to the address at which, immediately before the cancellation, the registered
office of the union was situated, a notice in the prescribed form stating the date on which
the registration was cancelled and the grounds for the cancellation, and shall also cause a
notice to the like effect to be published inthe Federal Gazette; and the original certificate
of registration of the union shall be delivered to the Registrar not more than thirty days
after the date of the cancellation.
(7) If a certificate which is required by subsection (6) of this section to be delivered
to the Registrar is not delivered to the Registrar within the time prescribed by that subsec-
tion, every person who, on the date of the cancellation, was an official or member of the
union shall be guilty of an offence against this Act.
(8) The foregoing provisions of this section shall, with the necessary modifications,
apply in relation to the registration of the Federation of Trade Unions as they apply in
relation to trade unions.
[2005 No. 17.]
[Issue 2] T14-8
CAP. Tl4
Trade Unions Act
(9) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this section, the Minister
may, due to overriding public interest, revoke the certificate of registration of any trade
union specified inPart A of the Third Schedule to this Act
[1996 No.26.Third Schedule.]
8. Proceedings on appeal against refusal or cancellation of registration
On an appeal under section 5(5) or 7 (3) of this Act the appropriate court in question
may make such order as it thinks proper; and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing provision, in any proceedings on such an appeal-
11996No. 26. 1999No. I.J
(a) the court shall have all the powers vested by this Act in the Registrar, and may
make any order which might or ought to have been made by the Registrar; and
(b) the costs 01"and incident thereto, including the costs of and incident to any pro-
ceedings before the Registrar, shall be in the discretion of the court.
9. Compulsory dissolution of trade union in certain circumstances
(I) Where-
(a) an application for the registration of atrade union is finally refused; or
(b) the registration of a trade union iscancelled under section 7 of this Act,
the trade union in question shall be dissolved in accordance with its rules within the
period of the three months beginning with the date of the tinal refusal or cancellation, as
the case may be.
(2) For the purposes of this section, an application for the registration of trade union
shall be taken to be finally refused-
(a) if no appeal from the Registrar's refusal is brought under section 5 (5) of this
Act within the period of thirty days mentioned in the said section 5 (5), at the
end of that period; or
(b) if such an appeal is brought within the said period and on the final determina-
tion thereof the Registrar's refusal is confirmed, on the date of that final deter-
mination; or
(c) if the matter has been referred to the Minister under section 6 (3) of this Act
and the decision of the Minister confirms the refusal, on the date of that deci-
sion.
(3) If a trade union which is required to be dissolved by subsection (I) of this section,
within a particular period is not dissolved within that period, the union and every official
thereof shall be liable on summary conviction to a tine of N I0 for each day on which the
union remains undissolved after the end of that period.
10. Voluntary dissolution of trade union
(I) Where a trade union is voluntarily dissolved in accordance with its rules, there
shall be delivered to the Registrar not more than thirty days after the date on which the
union ceases to exist-
T14-9 [Issue I]
CAP. Tl4
Trade Unions Act
(a) a notice in the prescribed form signed by a person who immediately before the
dissolution was an official of the union stating that the union has been dis-
solved; and
(b) the original certificate of registration of the union.
(2) Where a notice under this section is received by the Registrar, section 7 of this
Act shall not apply, and the Registrar, when satisfied that the trade union to which the
notice relates has been duly dissolved, shall cancel the registration thereof, and shall no-
tify the person by whom the notice was signed that the registration of the union has been
cancelled.
(3) If either the notice or the certificate of registration mentioned in subsection (I) of
this section is not delivered to the Registrar as required by that subsection, every person
who immediately before the dissolution of the trade union in question was an official
thereof shall be guilty of an offence against this Act.
General provisions affecting trade unions
11. Members ofarmed forces, police, etc., prohibited from forming or joining trade
union
(I) This section applies in relation to the following establishments, that is to say-
[1989 No. 25.]
(a) the Nigerian Army, Navy or Air Force;
(b) the Nigeria Police Force;
(c) the Customs Services, the Immigration Services and the Prison Services;
(d) the Customs Preventive Service;
(e) the Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Company Limited;
if) the Central Bank of Nigeria;
(g) the Nigerian Telecommunications Limited;
(h) every Federal or State government establishment the employees of which are
authorised to bear arms; and
(i) such other establishments as the Minister may, from time to time, by order
specify.
(2) It shall not be lawful for persons employed in any of the establishments to which
subsection (I) of this section relates to combine, organise themselves, or to be members
of a trade union, for purposes of employment, but nothing in this section shall be con-
strued as preventing the selling up of joint consultative committees in the establishments
concerned.
(3) As from the date of commencement of this Act, every trade union, which was in
existence or which would have continued to be in existence as from that date but for the
provisions of this Act, shall cease to exist and the certificate of registration of such trade
union shall, within thirty days of the coming into operation of this Act, be surrendered by
the trade union to the Registrar, who shall take such steps in relation to the distribution of
the assets of the trade union as he deems necessary or inaccordance with its rules.
[Issue I) T14 - 10
CAP. T14
Trade Unions Act
12. Membership of trade union not to be restricted on discriminatory grounds
(I) A person who is otherwise eligible for membership of a particular trade union
shall not be refused admission to membership of that union by reason only that he is of a
particular community, tribe, place of origin, religion or political opinion.
(2) If any person is refused admission to membership of a trade union in contraven-
tion of subsection (I) of this section, the union and every official thereof shall be guilty of
an offence against this Act.
(3) If any provision in the rules of a trade union is inconsistent with subsection (I) of
this section, that provision shall, to the extent of the inconsistency, be void.
(4) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary inthis Act, membership of atrade union
by employees shall be voluntary and no employee shall be forced tojoin any trade union
or be victimised for refusing tojoin or remain a member.
[2005 No. 17.)
13. Persons convicted of certain offences disqualified from holding office in a trade
union
(I) Subject to the provisions of this section, a person who has been convicted of any
of the offences mentioned in subsection (3) of this section, shall be disqualified from
holding office as an official of a trade union during the whole of the period of disqualifi-
cation applicable to him inaccordance with subsection (4) of this section:
Provided that a person shall not be disqualified under this section by reason only of
his having been convicted of an offence in respect of which he has been granted a free
pardon.
(2) For the purposes of this section, a conviction which occurred before the com-
mencement of this Act shall be taken into account indetermining whether a person isdis-
qualified under this section.
(3) The offences referred to insubsection (I) of this section, are as follows-
(a) the offences under the Criminal Code or the Penal Code which may lead to the
disqualification of membership of the National Assembly and the Houses of
Assembly; and
(b) any offence under section 48 or 49 of this Act.
(4) The period of disqualification applicable to a person convicted of any such of-
fence as aforesaid shall begin with the date of his conviction thereof and-
(a) if he is sentenced to imprisonment for that offence, shall end with the expira-
tion of the period of five years beginning with the date on which he is dis-
charged from prison; or
(b) ifhe is not sentenced to imprisonment for that offence, shall end with the expi-
ration of the period of five years beginning with the date of his conviction.
(5) Where a person is convicted of any such offence as aforesaid and an appeal lies
against the conviction, he shall not be treated for the purposes of this section as having
been convicted thereof unless and until either-
(a) the time for bringing an appeal against the decision has expired without such an
appeal having been brought; or
T14 - 11 [Issue 2]
CAP. TI4
Trade Unions Act
(b) such an appeal has been brought and abandoned or has been finally determined
by the upholding of the conviction,
and the reference in subsection (4) of this section to the date of his conviction of the of-
fence shall be construed accordingly.
(6) Subject to subsection (7) of this section, where any person holding office as an of-
ficial of a trade union becomes disqualified under this section, he shall forthwith vacate
that office; and any person who, at any time after the commencement of this Act, purports
to act as an official of a trade union at any time while he is so disqualified shall be guilty
of an offence against this Act and be liable on summary conviction to a fine of N 100.
(7) A person holding office as aforesaid at the commencement of this Act who, apart
from this subsection, would become disqualified under this section as from the date of the
commencement of this Act by virtue of a conviction which occurred before that date shall
be exempted from the operation of subsection (6) of this section until the end of the pe-
riod of three months beginning with that date, and accordingly need not vacate his office
until the end of that period unless lawfully required to do so apart from this section.
(8) Nothing in this section shall be construed as affecting the validity of anything
done by an official of atrade union before the date of the commencement of this Act or as
rendering unlawful anything done by any such official before that date.
14. Restriction on the number of trade unions of which a person may be an official
(I) No person shall hold office in any capacity in more than one trade union at the
same time.
(2) For the avoidance of doubt, no person who isa full-time official of the Federation
of Trade Unions shall at the same time hold office inany trade union.
(3) Any person who contravenes subsection (I) of this section shall be guilty of an of-
fence against this Act.
15. Trade union dues not to be applied for political purposes
(I) Unless the rules of a trade union otherwise provide, in so far as the funds of a
trade union represent payments which the members are required to make under the rules,
whether by way of subscriptions, dues or otherwise, those funds shall not be applied
(whether directly, or through any other union, association or body, or inany other indirect
manner) to the furtherance of any political objective.
(2) If any of the funds of a trade union are applied to the furtherance of political ob-
jective in contravention of subsection (I) of this section the trade union and every official
thereof shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
(3) The following objectives, and no others, are political objectives for the purposes
of this section, that isto say-
(a) the making of contributions towards the funds of any political party;
(b) the payment of any expenses incurred (whether directly or indirectly) by a can-
didate or prospective candidate for election to any political office in Nigeria or
any part of Nigeria, being expenses incurred before, during or after election in
connection with his candidature or election;
[Issue 2] T14 - 12
CAP.TI4
Trade Unions Act
(c) the holding of any meeting or the distribution of any literature or document in
support of any such candidate or prospective candidate;
(d) the maintenance of any person while he holds inNigeria or any part of Nigeria
a political office to which he has been elected;
(e) the registration of electors inNigeria or any part thereof;
(f) the holding of a political meeting of any kind or the distribution of political
literature or political documents of any kind, unless the main purpose of the
meeting or distribution is to further the regulation of the terms and conditions
of employment of workers.
16. Trade union funds not to be used for certain proceedings
(I) No person shall apply the funds of a trade union, whether directly or through any
trade union, association or body, for the purpose of any legal proceedings relating to his
election or appointment into any office inthe trade union.
(2) Any person who applies the funds of a trade union in contravention of subsec-
tion (I) of this section shall be guilty of an offence against this Act and liable on convic-
tion to afine of#5,000.
17. Deductions from wages of union members
Upon the registration and recognition of any of the trade unions specified inthe Third
Schedule to this Act, the employer shall-
(a) make deduction from the wages of every worker who isa member of any of the
trade unions for the purpose of paying contributions to the trade union so regis-
tered; and
(b) remit such deductions to the registered office of the trade union within a rea-
sonable period or such period as may be prescribed from time to time by the
Registrar.
[1991 No. I. 1996 No.4. 2005 No. 17.]
18. Payment of trade union dues to the Federation of Trade Unions
(I) Trade Unions shall pay to the appropriate registered Federation of Trade Unions
out of the contribution received from their members, such sum as may, from time to time,
be specified inthe Constitution of the registered Federation of Trade Unions concerned.
[1996 No.4. 2005 No. 17.]
(2) Any trade union which fails to pay the sum referred to in subsection (I) of this
section shall be guilty of an offence against this Act and liable on conviction to a fine of
two times the said sum.
(3) The institution of proceedings or imposition of a fine under subsection (2) of this
section shall not relieve the trade union from its liability to pay the sum referred to in sub-
section (I) of this section.
(4) The system of automatic check-off dues as contained herein shall, in respect of
any particular union, cease to operate forthwith on--
[1996 No. 26.]
(a) the dissolution of the union; or
T14-13 [Issue 2)
CAP.Tl4
Trade Unions Act
(b) the revocation of the certificate of registration of the union bythe Minister; or
(c) the cancellation of the registration of the union by the Registrar; or
(d) a strike action embarked upon by a union in breach of the Collective Bargain-
ing Agreement between the workers union and the employer.
19. Injunction to restrain misapplication of funds of trade union
(I) Without prejudice to the right of any person having a sufficient interest in the re-
lief sought to apply for an injunction to restrain any unauthorised or unlawful application
of the funds of atrade union, an injunction restraining any such application of the funds of
the trade union may be granted by the appropriate High Court upon the application of the
Attorney-General of the Federation or of the Registrar, or of any five or more members of
the union.
(2) On an application under this section, the appropriate High Court may, in addition
to or instead of granting an injunction, order that the whole or any part of the funds of the
trade union be paid over to the Public Trustee to be administered or disposed of in accor-
dance with the rules of the union.
20. Membership of persons under 21 years of age
(I) A person under the age of sixteen shall not be capable of being a member of a
trade union, and a person under the age of 21 shall not be capable of being an official of a
trade union.
(2) A person of or above the age of sixteen but under the age of 21 may be a member
of a trade union unless the rules of the union provide otherwise, and subject to subsec-
tion (I) of this section, and to the rules of the union, may enjoy all the rights ofa member
and may effectually sign any agreement or other document and give any receipt which
may be required to be signed or given bythe rules of the union for the purpose of this Act
or the Regulations.
21. Registered office of trade union
(I) Every trade union shall have a registered office to which all communications and
notices may be addressed.
(2) On registering a trade union the Registrar shall record as its registered office the
office whose address isstated inthe application for registration.
(3) Notice of any change in the situation of the registered office of atrade union shall
be given to the Registrar within thirty days after the date of the change, and the change
shall be recorded bythe Registrar.
(4) Ifany trade union continues for more than thirty days without having a registered
office, the trade union and every official thereof shall be liable on summary conviction to
a fine of NI0 for every day during which, after the end of the thirty days, itcontinued as
aforesaid.
[Issue 2] T14-14
CAP. TI4
Trade Unions Act
22. Copies of rules to be sold on demand
(I) Atrade union shall, on being so requested by any person, deliver or send to him a
copy of the rules of the union subject to payment therefor of a sum not exceeding fifty
kobo.
(2) Where a copy of the rules of a trade union is sent by post, the cost of the postage
may be charged in addition to the sum paid for the copy.
(3) If a trade union contravenes subsection (I) of this section, the trade union and
every official thereof who knowingly caused or permitted the contravention shall be liable
on summary conviction to a fine of NI0 for each otTence.
Benefits of registration
23. Trade unions not unlawful as such
(I) The purposes of atrade union shall not, by reason only that they are in restraint of
trade, be unlawful so as to render void or voidable any agreement or trust relating to the
union; but nothing inthis subsection shall enable any court to entertain any legal proceed-
ings instituted for the purpose of directly enforcing any agreement mentioned in subsec-
tion (2) of this section, or of recovering damages for any breach of any agreement so men-
tioned.
(2) The said agreements are the following-s-
(a) any agreement between the members of a trade union as such relating to the
terms and conditions on which members of the union shall or shall not employ
persons or be employed;
(b) any agreement for the payment by any person of any subscription or penalty to
atrade union;
(c) any agreement for the application ofthe funds ofa trade union~
(i) to provide benefits to its members; or
(ii) to make payments to any employer or worker who is not a member of
the union in consideration of his acting in conformity with the rules or
resolutions of the union; or
(iii) to discharge any fine imposed upon any person by acourt;
(d) any agreement such that every party thereto is one or other of the following,
that isto say, atrade union, or the Federation of Trade Unions;
[2005 No. 17.1
(e) any bond to secure the performance of any agreement mentioned in para-
graphs (a) to (d) ofthis subsection.
(3) Nothing in this section shall render unlawful any agreement mentioned in subsec-
tion (2) of this section.
T14-15 [Issue 2]
CAP. T14
Trade Unions Act
(4) Without prejudice to section 2 (I) of this Act, the foregoing provisions of this sec-
tion shall apply in relation to an unregistered trade union as they apply in relation to a
trade union, subject to the following restrictions, that isto say-
(a) if the trade union has not been registered, the said provisions shalI apply only
as regards-
(i) the agreement whereby the union is formed or any agreement whereby
a person joins the union;
(ii) any trust on which any funds of the union are to be held; and
(iii) any agreement for the use of any premises as the office of the union,
and if an application for the registration of the union is finalIy refused (within
the meaning of section 9 of this Act), the said provisions shall cease to apply at
the end of the period of three months beginning with the date of the final re-
fusal; and
(b) if the union has become unregistered in consequence of its registration being
cancelled under section 7of this Act the said provisions shall apply only during
the period of the three months beginning with the date of the cancellation.
24. Prohibitions of actions in tort against trade unions
(I) An action against a trade union (whether of workers or employers) in respect of
any tortious act alleged to have been committed by or on behalf of the trade union incon-
templation of or in furtherance of a trade dispute shall not be entertained by any court in
Nigeria.
(2) Subsection (I) of this section applies both to an action against a trade union in its
registered name and to an action against one or more person as representatives of atrade
uruon.
25. Recognition of registered trade union obligatory
(I) For the purposes of collective bargaining all registered Unions in the employment
of an employer shall constitute an electoral college to elect members who will represent
them innegotiations with the employer.
[1978 No. 22. 2005 No. 17.]
(2) For the purposes of representation at Tripartite Bodies or any other body the reg-
istered Federations of Trade Unions shall constitute an electoral college taking into ac-
count the size of each registered Federation, for the purpose of electing members who wilI
represent them.
[2005 No. 17.]
26. Right of member to nominate recipients of sums payable on death
(I) Subject to the provisions of this section, a member of a trade union may, as re-
gards any money payable by the union on his death, nominate any person (except one who
isdisqualified under subsection (4) of this section) as the person to whom that money isto
be paid on the death of the nominator; and on receiving satisfactory proof of the death of
a nominator, the union shall pay to the nominee so much of the amount due by reason of
the death of the nominator as iscovered bythe nomination.
[Issue 2] T14-16
CAP. T14
Trade Unions Act
(2) A nomination under this section-
(a) shall be in writing and be signed by the nominator, but may be partly printed;
(b) shall be delivered by hand or through the post at the registered office of the
trade union concerned; and
(c) may be revoked or varied, from time to time, by a notice in writing, as to which
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall apply as they apply in the case of a
nomination.
(3) In the case of any particular member of a trade union, the maximum amount
which can be covered by nominations under this section isNo100 and accordingly-
(a) any nomination which would bring the total amount so covered above NoI00
shall be of no effect; and
(b) not more than No100 shall be paid 10 nominees under this section on the death
of any particular member of atrade union.
(4) A person is qualified for nomination under this section if he is an official of the
same trade union as the nominator:
Provided that a person who is the husband, wife, father, mother, child, brother, sis-
ter, nephew or niece of the nominator can be validly nominated even ifhe is an ofticial of
the same trade union as the nominator.
Change of name, merger, and alteration of rules of trade unions
27. Change ofname oftrade union
(1) Subject to this section, a trade union may change its name if, but only if, not less
than two-thirds of all its members have in a secret ballot voted in favour of the proposed
change; but achange of name shall not take effect until itisregistered.
(2) Where a trade union proposes to change its name and the requirements of subsec-
tion (I) of this section have been complied with, the union must sent to the Registrar-
(a) a notice in the prescribed form of the proposed change of name, signed by
seven members of the union and countersigned by the secretary of the union;
and
(b) a statutory declaration by the secretary of the union that the requirements of
subsection (I) of this section have been complied with.
0) On receipt of a notice under subsection (2) of this section together with the neces-
sary statutory declaration the Registrar shall if satisfied that the requirements of this Act
and the Regulations have complied with, register the change of name.
(4) Where a trade union changes its name, the change of name shall not affect any
right or obligation of the union or of any of its members, and any pending legal proceed-
ings may be continued by or against the trade union or any person as a representative
thereof, notwithstanding its change of name.
T14-17 [Issue 1]
CAP. Tl4
Trade Unions Act
28. Merger of trade unions
(I) Subject to this section, two or more trade unions may merge and became one trade
union, but shall not do so unless-
[1996 No.4.]
(a) a resolution to that effect, signed by the President or the secretary of each of
the merging unions, ispresented to the Registrar; and
(b) the rules proposed for the merging unions and the terms of the merger have
both been forwarded to the Registrar.
(2) A merger of two or more trade unions under this section shall not take effect until
itisregistered.
(3) Where two or more trade unions propose to merge and the provisions of subsec-
tion (I) of this section have been complied with, the Registrar shall forthwith register the
merged unions.
(4) The merged union shall come into force on the day it is registered and the prop-
erty of each of the merged unions shall to the extent provided in the terms of the merger
forwarded to the Registrar, become vested in the merged union without the requirement of
any form of conveyance or transfer other than those contained in the terms of merger for-
warded to the Registrar.
(5) Accordingly, each of the merging unions shall cease to exist and the registration
of each of the merging unions shall be cancelled forthwith.
(6) Where the registration of a trade union is cancelled in pursuance of subsection (5)
of this section, the provisions of subsections (6) and (7) of section 7 of this Act shall ap-
ply as ifthe registration had been cancelled under that section.
(7) The merger of unions referred to in subsection (I) of this section shall not preju-
dice the right of any creditor of atrade union.
(8) In this section, "the merging unions" and "the merged union" means respec-
tively the trade unions proposing to merge and the trade union which shall emerge from
the merger.
29. Alteration of rules oftrade unions
(I) Subject to this section, atrade union may alter its rules by any method of doing so
provided for by its rules, but no alteration of the rules of a trade union shall take effect
until the alteration is registered.
(2) The Registrar shall not register an alteration of the rules of a trade union ifas a re-
sult of the alteration-
(a) the rules of the union would cease to contain provisions with respect to the
various mailers mentioned in the First Schedule of this Act; or
[FirstSchedule.]
(b) the principal purpose of the trade union would cease to be that of regulating the
terms and conditions of employment of workers.
[IssueI] T14-18
CAP. TI4
Trade Unions Act
(3) An alteration of the rules of a trade union shall, if the rules of the union so pro-
vide, come into effect on adate later than the date of which the alteration isregistered, but
shall otherwise come into effect on the date on which the alteration isregistered.
PART II
Federations of Trade Unions
30. Formation of Federation of Trade Unions
(I) Subject to this section, two or more trade unions whose members are employed in
the same trade, occupation or industry, or in substantially similar trades, occupations or
industries, may form a Federation of Trade Unions, but shall not do so unless, inthe case
of each of the unions concemed-
(a) a resolution approving the formation of the proposed federation has, ina secret
ballot held at a meeting (whether annual or special) of delegates representing
all the members of the union, been passed in circumstances such that the votes
cast in favour of the resolution represent a simple majority of the members of
the union; and
(b) not less than thirty days before the date of that meeting a notice in the pre-
scribed form setting out the resolution was given to the Registrar; and
(c) all reasonable steps were taken by the union to secure that, not less than thirty
days before the date of that meeting, every member of the union was supplied
with asimilar notice.
(2) A Federation of Trade Unions shall not come into existence until itisregistered.
(3) Where two or more trade unions propose to form a Federation of Trade Unions
and the requirements of subsection (l) of this section have been complied with, there shall
be sent to the Registrar-
(a) an application in the prescribed form for the registration of the proposed fed-
eration, signed by seven members of each one of those unions and counter-
signed by the secretary of each one of those unions; and
(b) in respect of each of those unions, a statutory declaration by the secretary
thereof that the requirements of subsection (I) of this section have been com-
plied with.
(4) Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions of this section or to the generality
of section 55of this Act, Regulations, made under the said section 55-
(a) may provide that all or any of the provisions of sections 2 to 10 and the First
Schedule of this Act with respect to trade unions shall apply in relation to fed-
erations of trade unions, subject to such exemptions, additions or other modifi-
cations (if any) as may be specified inthe Regulations; or
[First Schedule.]
(b) may include, as regards such federations, provisions corresponding (with or
without exceptions, additions or other modifications) to all or any of the said
provisions.
Tl4 - 19 [Issue 2]
CAP. TI4
Trade Unions Act
(5) On receipt of an application under subsection (3) of this section together with the
necessary statutory declarations, the Registrar, if satisfied that the requirements of this
Act (including any provision thereof applied by virtue of subsection (4) of this section)
and of the Regulations with respect to the registration of Federations of Trade Unions
have been complied with, shall register the Federation of Trade Unions.
[2005 No. 17.]
(6) Any person who purports to do any act on behalf of a proposed Federation of
Trade Unions before that federation isregistered shall be guilty of an offence against this
Act.
31. Admission of further trade unions to membership of registered federation
(I) Subject to this section, a trade union may become a member of a registered Fed-
eration of Trade Unions, whether or not members of the trade union wishing to join the
registered Federation of Trade Unions are employed in trades, occupations or industries
which are similar to the trades, occupations or industries of the trade unions which formed
the registered federation which the trade union seeks tojoin; provided-
(2005 No. 17.]
(a) thejoining union iseligible for membership of the federation under the rules of
the federation; and
[2005 No. 17.]
(b) a resolution approving the application for membership of the federation has, in
a secret ballot held at such a meeting as is mentioned in paragraph (a) of sec-
tion 30 (1) of this Act been passed in the circumstances mentioned inthat para-
graph; and
[2005 No. 17.]
(c) all reasonable steps were taken by thejoining union to secure that, not less than
thirty days before the date of that meeting, every member of the union was
supplied with a notice inthe prescribed form setting out the resolution.
[2005 No. 17.]
(2) The admission of a trade union to membership of a registered Federation of Trade
Unions shall not take effect until the joining union is registered as a member of the
federation.
(3) Where a Federation of Trade Unions proposes to admit a trade union to member-
ship of the federation and the requirements of subsection (1) of this section have been
complied with as regards thejoining union, there shall be sent to the Registrar-
(a) a notice in the prescribed form of the proposed admission of the joining union
signed by seven members of thejoining union and countersigned by the secre-
tary of that union;
(b) a statutory declaration by the secretary of the joining union that the require-
ments of subsection (I) of this section have been complied with; and
(c) a certificate inthe prescribed form signed by the secretary of the federation that
the admission of the joining union has been approved in accordance with the
rules of the federation.
[Issue 21 Tl4 - 20
CAP. TI4
Trade Unions Act
(4) On receipt of the notice and certificate required by subsection (3) (a) and (c) of
this section together with the necessary statutory declaration the Registrar, if satisfied that
the requirement of this Act and the Regulations have been complied with, shall register
thejoining union as amember of the federation.
(5) In this section, "joining union", in relation to a Federation of Trade Unions,
means a trade union proposing to become amember of that federation.
(6) No person, trade union or employer shall take part in a strike or lock out or en-
gage inany conduct incontemplation or furtherance of astrike or lock out unless-
(a) the person, trade union or employer is not engaged inthe provision of essential
services;
(b) the strike or lock out concerns a labour dispute that constitutes a dispute of
right;
(c) the strike or lock out concerns a dispute arising from a collective and funda-
mental breach of contract of employment or collective agreement on the part of
the employee, trade union or employer;
(d) the provisions for arbitration in the Trade Disputes Act, Cap. T8, Laws of the
Federation of Nigeria, 2004 have first been copies with; and
(e) in the case of an employee or a trade union, a ballot has been conducted in ac-
cordance with the rules and constitution of the trade union at which a simple
majority of all registered members voted to go on strike.
[2005 No. 17.]
(7) Any person, trade union or employer who contravenes any of the provisions of
this section commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of NoI0,000 or six
months imprisonment or to both the fine and imprisonment.
[2005 No. 17.1
(8) The provisions for arbitration in the Trade Disputes Act, Cap. T8, Laws of the
Federation of Nigeria, 2004 shall apply in all disputes affecting the provision of essential
services and the determination of the National Industrial Court in all such disputes shall
be final.
[2005 No. 17.]
(9) For the purpose of this Act-
(a) "disputes of right" means any labour dispute arising from the negotianon,
application, interpretation or implementation of a contract of employment or
collective agreement under this Act or any other enactment or law governing
matters relating to terms and conditions of employment;
(b) "essential services" shall be as defined in the First Schedule of the Trade Dis-
putes Act, Cap. T8, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004.
L2005No. 17.]
32. Application of certain provisions of Part I to Federations of Trade Unions
(I) The provisions of Part Iof this Act specified insubsection (2) of this section shall,
with any necessary modifications or exceptions, apply inrelation to registered Federations
of Trade Unions as they apply inrelation to trade unions.
Tl4-21 [Issue 2]
CAP. TI4
TradeUnionsAct
(2) The said provisions are the following-
(a) section 13;
(b) section 15 and 19;
(c) section 20 (I), so far as itrelates to capacity to be an official;
(d) sections 21 to 24; and
(e) sections 27 and 29.
33. No person to hold office in more than one Federation of Trade Unions at the
same time
(I) No person shall be an official of more than one Federation of Trade Unions at the
same time:
[1978 No. 22. 2005 No. 17.]
Provided that nothing inthis subsection, shall prevent aperson who isan official of
a Federation of Trade Unions from being at the same time an official of a trade union or
the Federation of Trade Unions, or of both.
[2005 No. 17.1
(2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1)of this section shall be guilty of an of-
fence against this Act.
PART III
Federation a/Trade Unions
[2005 No. 17.]
34 .
[2005 No. 17.]
35. Powers of the Federation of Trade Unions and application of certain provisions
of Part I
(I) A Federation of Trade Unions may be registered by the Registrar if-
(a) its main objective isto represent the interest of employees;
(b) it is made up of 12or more trade unions none of which shall have been a mem-
ber of another registered Federation of Trade Unions;
(c) ithas been established by resolution of the national delegates conference of the
trade unions that constitutes its members;
(d) it has adopted a name that does not resemble the name of another Federation of
Trade Unions;
(e) it has adopted a constitution and or rules in accordance with the First Schedule
of this Act;
(f) ithas its head office inthe Federal Republic of Nigeria; and
(g) ithas submitted to the Registrar an application inthe prescribed form signed by
at least two authorised members of at least 12registered trade unions wishing
to become its members.
[2005 No. 17.]
[Issue 21 Tl4 -22
CAP. T14
Trade Unions Act
(2) Upon receipt of an application as required by subsection (I) of this section, the
Registrar shall within 90 days ifsatisfied that all requirements with respect to the registra-
tion of Federation of Trade Unions have been met, register the Federation concerned and
evidence such registration with the issuance of aCertificate of Registration.
[2005 No. 17.]
(3) The requirements for registration of trade unions or Federation of Trade Unions
introduced into the Principal Act by this Act, shall not apply to any of the unions which
immediately before the coming into force of this Act, had been duly registered or deemed
duly registered under this Act (as amended) and such trade unions or Federation of Trade
Unions shall, subject to the requirements introduced by this Act, continue to exist in ac-
cordance with the rights attached to their registration as such, unless and until they are
dissolved, amalgamated, judicially forfeited or cancellation of their registration certificate.
[2005 No. 17.]
(4) The Federation of Trade Unions shall have power, subject to itsrules-
(a) to represent the general interest of its members on any national advisory body
set up by the Government of the Federation;
(b) to collect and disseminate to its members information and advice on economic
and social matters;
(c) to give advice, encouragement or financial assistance to any of its members in
need thereof;
(d) to promote the education of members of trade union inthe field of labour rela-
tions and connected fields; and
(e) to render any other assistance provided for under the articles of affiliation.
[2005 No. 17.J
(5) The Federation of Trade Unions shall not engage in collective bargaining on be-
half of any trade union or Federation of Trade Unions except if it isrequested to do so by
that trade union or federation which isa party to the collective bargaining.
[2005 No. 17.J
(6) Ifthe Federation of Trade Unions engages in any collective bargaining in contra-
vention of subsection (2)of this section, then-
(a) the Organisation and every official thereof; and
(b) every trade union or Federation of Trade Unions on behalf of which the Or-
ganisation engaged therein and every official of that union or federation,
shall each be guilty of an offence against this Act.
[2005 No. 17.)
(7) The provisions of Part I of this Act specified in section 32 of the Act shall, with
any necessary modifications or exceptions, apply in relation to the Federation of Trade
Unions as they apply inrelation to trade unions.
12005 No. 17.1
Tl4 -23 [Issue 2)
CAP. TI4
Trade Unions Act
36. Admission of further bodies to membership of the Federation of Trade Unions
(I) Subject to this section, a body which is either a trade union or registered Federa-
tion of Trade Unions may become a member of the Federation of Trade Unions, but shall
not do so unless thejoining body iseligible for membership of the Organisation under the
rules of the Organisation and, in the case of the trade union or each of the trade unions
concerned-
[2005 No. 17.]
(a) a resolution approving the proposed application for membership of the Organi-
sation has, in a secret ballot held at such a meeting as is mentioned in para-
graph (a) of section 33(2) of this Act been passed in the circumstances men-
tioned in that paragraph; and
(b) all reasonable steps were taken by the union to secure that, not less than ninety
days before the date of that meeting, every member of the union was supplied
with anotice inthe prescribed form setting out the resolution.
(2) The admission of a joining body to membership of the Federation of Trade
Unions shall not take effect until the joining body is registered as a member of the
Organisation.
[2005 No. 17.1
(3) Where the Federation of Trade Unions proposes to admit a body to membership
of the Organisation and the requirements of subsection (I) of this section have been com-
plied with as regards the trade union or each of the trade unions concerned, there must be
sent to the Registrar-
[2005 No. 17.]
(a) a notice in the prescribed form of the proposed admission of the joining body
signed by seven members of the trade union or each of the trade unions con-
cerned and countersigned by the secretary of that unions or of each of those un-
ions and if the joining body is a Federation of Trade Unions, by the secretary
thereof;
(b) in respect of the trade union or each of the trade unions concerned, a statutory
declaration by the secretary thereof that the requirements of subsection (J) of
this section have been complied with; and
(c) a certificate in the prescribed form signed by the secretary of the Organisation
that the admission of the joining body has been approved in accordance with
the rules of the Organisation.
(4) On receipt of the notice and the certificate required by subsection (3) (a) and (c)
of this section and the necessary statutory declaration, the Registrar, if satisfied that he
requirements of this Act and the Regulations have been complied with, shall register the
joining body as a member of the Federation of Trade Unions.
[2005 No. 17.]
(5) Inthis section-
(a) "joining body", in relation to a Federation of Trade Unions, means a trade
union or Federation of Trade Unions proposing to become a member of that
Organisation; and
L2005No. 17.]
[Issue 2] T14-24
CAP. TI4
Trade Unions Act
(b) "trade union concerned", inthe case ofajoining body which isa trade union,
means that trade union or, in the case of ajoining body which is a Federation
of Trade Unions, means atrade union which isa member of that federation.
PARTlY
Accounts and returns of registered bodies
37. Annual returns
(1) Every registered body shall send to the Registrar before I June in each year an
annual return in the prescribed form which shall be made out to such date as may be pre-
scribed and shall be certified as correct bythe duly appointed auditor.
[1989 No. 25.j
(2) Every annual return prepared under this section in respect of a registered body
shall include-
(a) full particulars of the assets and liabilities of the body at the date to which the
return ismade out;
(b) full particulars of the receipts and expenditure of the body during the year end-
ing with that date;
(c) the prescribed particulars of the members of the body at that date, and of any
changes therein which occurred during the years ending with that date;
(d) inthe case of a trade union, evidence that the payment referred to in section 18
of this Act has been made; and
(e) such other particulars as may be prescribed,
and shall show separately the amount expended by the body during that year on each of
its various purposes.
(3) Every annual return sent to the Registrar under this section by a registered body
shall be accompanied by-
(a) a copy of the rules of the body as in force on the date to which the return is
made out; and
(b) a copy of all alterations of the rules of the body, and all new rules thereof,
adopted during the year ending with that date, showing in respect of each al-
teration or new rules the date on which itwas adopted, whether or not ithas been
registered and, ifso the date onwhich itcame or will come into force; and
(c) a complete list of the officials of the body at the date to which the return is
made out, and a list of all changes in the officials of the body which occurred
during the year ending with that date, showing the date of each such change.
(4) A registered body shall, on being so requested by any member thereof, deliver or
send to him free of charge a copy of the latest annual return sent by it to the Registrar
under this section.
(5) If a registered body fails to comply with any of the requirements of subsec-
tions (I) to (3) of this section, the body and every official thereof shall be guilty of an
offence against this Act.
continued on page 25
TI4 -24(1) [Issue 2]
CAP. Tl4
Trade Unions Act
(6) If a registered body fails to comply with subsection (4) of this section, the body
and every official thereof who knowingly caused or permitted the failure shall be liable on
summary conviction to a fine of N I0 for each offence.
38. Duty oftreasurer and other officials to render accounts
(I) The treasurer of a registered body, whenever he is required to do so by the rules
of the body, or on being specially directed to do so by the committee of management,
shall prepare a full and accurate account showing-
(a) all sums received or paid by him since the date to which the latest account
submitted by him was made out; and
(b) the balance remaining in his hands, at the date to which the new account is
made out, and all bonds and securities held by the body at that date,
and shall cause the account, when prepared, to be audited by the duly appointed auditor.
(2) Every account prepared in accordance with subsection (I) of this section shall,
after being audited, be submitted by the treasurer to the members of the registered body in
question in accordance with the rules thereof or, if the account was prepared on the spe-
cial directions of the committee of management, in accordance with those directions.
(3) Where the treasurer of a registered body who has submitted an account under this
section is required to do so by a resolution passed at a meeting of the body, or is directed
to do so by the committee of management, he shall as soon as possible hand over to the
body the balance due from him to it at the time of the hand-over, as certified by the duly
appointed auditor, and shall also, if required, hand over to the body all bonds, securities,
books, papers, and other property of the body in his possession or custody.
(4) In determining for the purpose of subsection (3) of this section the balance due
from the treasurer of a registered body at the time of a hand-over, the duly appointed
auditor shall add to the balance shown as due from the treasurer in the latest account sub-
mitted by him under this section any sums received by the treasurer on account of the
body since the date to which that account was made up, and shall deduct any sums paid by
him on account of the body since that date.
(5) If the treasurer of a registered body fails to hand over in full to the body the bal-
ance which it is his duty under subsection (3)of this section to hand over, the body or any
person capable of suing as a representative thereof may institute civil proceedings against
the treasurer in any competent court for the balance shown as due from him in the latest
account submitted by him under this section and for all sums by him on account of the
body since the date to which that account was made up, leaving him to set off in the pro-
ceedings any sums which may have been paid by him to or on account of the body since
that date.
(6) If the treasurer of a registered body fails to hand over to the body anything (other
than the balance mentioned in subsection (5) of this section) which it is his duty under
subsection (3) of this section to hand over, the body or any person capable of suing as a
representative thereof may institute civil proceedings against the treasurer in any compe-
tent court for the delivery of that thing.
(7) In any such proceedings as are mentioned in subsection (5) or (6) of this section,
the court shall order the defendant to pay the plaintiff's costs.
Tl4 - 25 [Issue IJ
CAP. Tl4
Trade Unions Act
(8) The foregoing provisions of this section shall, so far as capable of so applying,
apply to every other official of a registered body as they apply to the treasurer thereof;
and references, in those provisions to the treasurer of such body shall be construed ac-
cordingly.
39. Copies ofaudited accounts to besent to the Registrar
(I) Where an audited account is submitted to the members of a registered body or to
the committee of management thereof as required by section 38 (2) of this Act, the body
shall send a copy of the audited account to the Registrar within one month after the date
on which it isso submitted.
(2) If a registered body contravenes subsection (I) of this section, the body and every
official thereof who knowingly caused or permitted the contravention shall be guilty of an
offence against this Act.
40. Power of Registrar to call for accounts at any time
(I) Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions of this Part of this Act, the Regis-
trar may at any time call upon the treasurer, the committee of management or any other
official of a registered body to prepare and submit to him within a period of thirty days
from the date of the call letter detailed accounts of the funds of the body in respect of any
particular period; and any accounts submitted under this section shall show in detail such
information as the Registrar may direct, and shall, if the Registrar so directs, be audited
by the duly appointed auditor before being submitted to the Registrar.
(2) If any person whose duty it is under subsection (I) of this section to prepare or as-
sist in preparing any accounts called for under that subsection, or to audit or submit to the
Registrar any such accounts, fails to do so without reasonable excuse (proof of which
shall lie on him), he shall be guilty of an offence against this Act.
41. Investigation ofunsatisfactory accounts by Registrar
(I) If any account sent or submitted to the Registrar under section 39 or 40 of this Act
is in his opinion unsatisfactory in that he is unable to satisfy himself as regards any ques-
tion which affects or is likely to affect the accuracy of the account, and in particular any
question as to any of the matters mentioned in subsection (2) of this section, the Registrar
may, in his discretion either-
(a) direct all or any of the books, records or other documents of the registered
body concerned to be delivered to him for examination by himself or by an
auditor appointed by him; or
(b) direct that the account be audited by an auditor designated by him for the pur-
pose.
(2) The matters referred to in subsection (I) of this section are the following-
(a) the manner in which the account inquestion has been kept and prepared;
(b) the sufficiency or otherwise of existing checks against irregularity or fraud;
(c) the authority for any departure from the rules of the registered body concerned;
(d) the existence or otherwise of authority for all expenditure shown in the ac-
count;
CAP. T14
Trude Unions Act
(e) the amount of any sums due to the registered body concerned (other than sub-
scriptions and other sums due from members of the body under its rules) and
the reasons for any failure to collect any sums (other than as aforesaid) so due;
if) the existence of any outstanding advances by or deposits with the registered
body concerned which are of an unusual character;
(g) the verification of any material assets of the registered body concerned which
are shown inthe account.
(3) Where the Registrar has given a direction under subsection (I) (b) of this section,
the designated auditor shall have power-
(a) to require all or any of the books, records other documents of the registered
body concerned to be produced to him; and
(b) to inspect and, if he thinks fit, take copies of or extracts from any such docu-
ment so far as it appears to him necessary to do so for the purpose of auditing
the account to which the direction relates; and
(c) for the purpose of auditing that account, to enter any premises of the registered
body concerned at all reasonable times.
(4) Any person who->
(a) fails to deliver to the Registrar any document which he has been directed under
subsection (I) (a) of this section so to deliver; or
(b) fails to produce to a designated auditor any document which he has been re-
quired by that auditor under subsection (3) (a) of this section so to produce; or
(c) obstructs, molests or hinders any authority designated under subsection (I) (b)
of this section inthe exercise of his power under subsection (3) of this section,
shall be guilty of an offence against this Act.
(5) Where any account is examined or audited by an auditor by virtue of a direction un-
der subsection (I) (a) or (b) of this section, the cost of the examination or audit, as certi-
fied by the Registrar, shall be paid by the registered body concerned and, if not so paid,
may be recovered from that body as ifit were a simple contract debt due to the Registrar.
42. Power of Registrar to institute proceedings on behalf of registered body in cer-
tain circumstances
(I) Where, as a result of any examination of any account carried out by the Registrar
under section 41 of this Act or any examination or audit of any account carried out by an
auditor by virtue of that section, itappears to the Registrar-
(a) that any offence, whether against an enactment contained in this Act or the
Regulations or any other enactment, has been committed bythe registered body
concerned or by any other person; or
(b) that any sum due to the registered body concerned (other than subscriptions
and other sums due from members of the body under its rules) has not been
collected,
TI4 - 27 [Issue 2]
CAP. TI4
Trade Unions Act
and that, in either case, it is expedient to do so by reason of the refusal or neglect of the
registered body concerned or the members thereof to take legal proceedings, the Registrar
may on behalf of that body institute in its name-
(i) in a case falling within paragraph (a) of this section, criminal proceed-
ings for that offence; or
(ii) in a case falling within paragraph (b) of this section, civil proceedings
for the recovery of the said sum.
(2) In any civil proceedings instituted by the Registrar by virtue of subsection (1) of
this section, the court shall have the same power to make an order for the payment of
costs to or by the Registrar as ifhe were a party to the proceedings.
PART V
Miscellaneous and general provisions
43. Peaceful picketing
(I) Itshall be lawful for one or more persons, acting on their own behalf or on behalf
of a trade union or registered Federation of Trade Unions or of an individual employer or
firm in contemplation or furtherance of a trade dispute, to attend at or near a house or
place where a person resides or works or carries on business or happens to be, if they so
attend merely for the purpose of peacefully obtaining or communicating information or of
peacefully persuading any person to work or abstain from working.
[2005 No. 17.J
(IA) No person shall subject any other person to any kind of constraint or restriction
of his personal freedom inthe course of persuasion.
[2005 No. 17.]
(IB) No trade union or registered Federation of Trade Unions or any member thereof
shall in the course of any strike action compel any person who is not a member of its un-
ion tojoin any strike or in any highways, institutions or premises of any kind for the pur-
poses of giving effect to the strike.
[2005 No. 17.]
(2) Accordingly, the doing of anything declared by subsection (I) of this section to be
lawful shall not constitute an offence under any law in force in Nigeria or any part
thereof, and in particular shall not constitute an offence under section 366 of the Criminal
Code or any corresponding enactment in force inany part of Nigeria.
[Cap. C38.J
44. Certain acts not actionable in tort if in contemplation or furtherance of trade
dispute
(I) An act done by a person in contemplation or furtherance of a trade dispute shall
not be actionable in tort on anyone or more of the following grounds only, that is to
say-
(a) that itinduces some other person to break acontract of employment; or
[Issue 2] TI4 - 28
CAP. T14
Trade Unions Act
(b) that it is an interference with the trade, business or employment of some other
person or with the right of some other person to dispose of his capital or his la-
bour as he wishes; or
(c) that itconsists in his threatening that a contract of employment (whether one to
which he isa party or not) will be broken; or
(d) that it consists inhis threatening that he will induce some other person to break
acontract of employment to which that other person isa party.
(2) Nothing in subsection (I) of this section shall prevent an act done in contempla-
tion or furtherance of a trade dispute from being actionable in tort on any ground not
mentioned inthat subsection.
45. Companies etc., Act not to apply to bodies registerable under this Act
The Companies and Allied Matters Act shall not apply to any trade union or to any
Federation of Trade Unions; and the registration of any such body under that Act shall be
void.
[2005 No. 17.Cap. C20.]
46. The Registrar of Trade Unions
(I) There shall be appointed for the purposes of this Act a Registrar of Trade Unions,
and there may be appointed for those purposes one or more Assistant Registrars of Trade
Unions; but no such appointment shall have effect unless notice thereof has been pub-
lished in the Federal Gazette.
(2) The office of the Registrar of Trade Unions and that of any Assistant Registrar
of Trade Unions shall be offices in the Federal Ministry of Employment, Labour and
Productivity.
(3) Anything which is required or authorised to be done by or to the Registrar under
this Act or under the Regulations may be done by or to any Assistant Registrar of Trade
Unions whom he may authorise (whether specifically or generally) for the purpose.
47. Certain matters to be notified in Gazette
Without prejudice to any of the requirements of this Act or the Regulations, itshall be
the duty of the Registrar to cause notice of the following matters to be published in the
Federal Gazette, namely-
(a) the registration of any body under this Act;
(b) the cancellation of the registration of any registered body;
(c) the registration of any change of name or of any alteration of the rules of any
registered body;
(d) the merger of any two or more trade unions;
[1996 No.4.]
(e) any change inthe situation of the registered office of aregistered body;
(f) the dissolution of any body which isor has been registered.
Tl4 -29 [lssuc2]
CAP. TI4
Trade Unions Act
48. Penalty for issuing false copies of rules of registered body
(I) Ifany person with intent to mislead or defraud supplies or lends to any member or
prospective member of a registered body a copy of any rules or any alteration or amend-
ment of any rules other than those actually in force atthe time, on the false pretence-
(a) that the material supplied or lent represents the rules of the body as then in
force; or
(b) that there are no other rules of the body,
he shall be guilty of an offence against this section.
(2) In subsection (I) of this section-
(a) "prospective member", in relation to a registered body, means a person or
body eligible for membership of that body; and
(b) "member" or "prospective member", in relation to a registered body being a
or Federation of Trade Unions, includes an individual acting on behalf of a
member or prospective member of that body.
[2005 No. 17.J
(3) If any person with intent to mislead or defraud supplies or lends a copy of any
rules to any person on the false pretence that they are the rules of a registered body, he
shall be guilty of an offence against this section.
(4) A person guilty of an offence against this section shall be liable on summary con-
viction to a fine of #200 or to imprisonment for a term of six months.
49. Penalty for including false information in any document sent to Registrar
If any person in any application, return, notice, certificate, statutory declaration or
other document required to be made, sent or given to the Registrar under or for the pur-
poses of this Act or the Regulations, makes any statement which he knows to be false ina
material particular, or recklessly makes any statement which is false in a material particu-
lar, he shall be guiItyof an offence and be liable on summary conviction to a fine of #200
or to imprisonment for aterm of six months.
50. General penalty for offences against this Act
Every person or body declared by any provision of this Act to be guilty of an offence
against this Act shall, if no other penalty for that offence is prescribed in this Act, be li-
able on summary conviction to a tine of#50.
51. Jurisdiction
(I) Every offence against this Act alleged to have been committed-
(a) by a trade union which has not yet been registered or any official of such a
trade union;
(b) by a body which is or has been registered under this Act or by an officer of
such a body;
(c) by an official of any such body in circumstances such that both the body and
the official are guilty of the same offence,
[Issue 2] TI4 - 30
CAP. TI4
Trade Unions Act
may be prosecuted summarily before a magistrate's court having jurisdiction where the
registered office of the body in question is situated or, ifthe body has ceased to be regis-
tered, where itsregistered office was situated immediately before itceased to be registered.
(2) Inthis section "official" includes aformer official.
(3) The foregoing provisions of this section are without prejudice to any jurisdiction
exercisable by any court apart from this section.
52. Validity of Act not to be enquired into, etc.
No question as to the validity of any action taken by any person or authority in pursu-
ance of this Act shall be entertained by any court other than the appropriate court having
thejurisdiction to entertain such matters.
[1999 No. I.]
53. Regulations
(I) The Minister may make such Regulations as appear to him to be necessary or ex-
pedient tor carrying this Act into effect, and in particular for prescribing anything re-
quired or authorised bythis Act to be prescribed.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (I) of this section, Regulations
may be made under this section with respect to--
(a) registration;
(b) the forms to be used for the purposes of thisAct;
(c) the seal, ifany, to be used by the Registrar for the purposes of this Act;
(d) the inspection of registers and documents kept by the Registrar and the making
of copies of, or any part of, the contents thereof;
(e) the fees to be charged for registration, inspection or any other service or matter
for which provision is made inthis Act or the Regulations; and
if) definition of the limit of relationship and degree of affiliation between the Fed-
eration of Trade Unions and any trade union.
[1986No. 17.2005 No. 17.]
(3) Regulations under this section may make different provision for different circum-
stances, and in particular may make special provision with respect to future Federations of
Trade Unions which may come into existence and the Federation of Trade Unions which
isinexistence at the commencement of this section.
[1978 No. 22. 2005 No. 17.J
54. Interpretation
In this Act, unless the content otherwise requires, the following expressions have the
meanings hereby respectively assigned to them, that isto say-
"appropriate court" means the Industrial Arbitration Panel and the National Indus-
trial Court as the case may be;
[1999 No. I.]
T14-31 [Issue 2)
CAP. Tl4
Trade Unions Act
"appropriate High Court", in relation to trade union means the High Court of the
State inwhich the registered office of the union issituated;
"duly appointed auditor", in relation to a registered body means the person or per-
sons who, in accordance with the rules of the body, have been appointed with the ap-
proval of the Registrar to audit the treasurer's accounts;
"Federation of Trade Unions" means a body by that name set up by section 33 of
this Act;
[1978 No. 22. 2005 No. 17.]
"member of trade union" means a person normally engaged in a trade or industry
which the trade union represents and a person either elected or appointed by a trade union
to represent workers' interest;
[1999 No. I.]
"member", in relation to Federation of Trade Unions, means a trade union which is a
member thereof;
[2005 No. 17.]
"Minister" means the Minister of Employment, Labour and Productivity;
"official", in relation to a body which isor is capable of being registered, means any
person holding an official position in that body and accordingly includes in particular any
president, secretary or treasurer thereof and every member of the committee of manage-
ment thereof;
"prescribed" means prescribed by the Regulations;
"registered" means registered under this Act;
"registered body" means a trade union or the Federation of Trade Unions registered
under this Act;
[2005 No. 17.]
"Registrar" means the Registrar of Trade Unions appointed under section 46 of this
Act;
"Regulations" means all Regulations for the time being inforce under this Act;
"trade dispute" means any dispute between employers and workers, or between
workers and workers, which isconnected with the employment or non-employment, or the
terms of employment or conditions or work of any person;
"trade union" has the meaning assigned insection I(1) of this Act;
[Issue 2] Tl4 -32
CAP. Tl4
Trade Unions Act
"worker" means any employee, that isto say any member of the public service of the
Federation or a State or any individual (other than a member of any such public service)
who has entered into or works under a contract with an employer, whether the contract is
for manual labour, clerical work or otherwise, expressed or implied, oral or in writing,
and whether it is a contract personally to execute any work or labour or a contract of
apprenticeship.
55. Repeals and transitional provisions
(I) The enactments specified in the Second Schedule of this Act are hereby repealed
to the extent specified inthe third column of that Schedule.
[Second Schedule.]
(2) Subject to subsection (I) of this section, any application made, fee paid, register
kept, notice published or any other thing whatsoever done under or by virtue of any provi-
sion of the Trade Unions Act repealed by this Act shall be deemed to have been made,
continued on page 33
T14 - 32(1) [Issue 2J
CAP. T14
Trade Unions Act
paid, kept, published or done, as the case may be, under or by virtue of the corresponding
provision of this Act or the Regulations; and anything begun under any such provision
may be continued under this Act as ifbegun under this Act.
56. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Trade Unions Act.
SCHEDULES
FIRST SCHEDULE
[Sections 4, 29, 30(4) (a).l
Matters tobeprovidedfor illrules of trade unions
1. The name of the trade union.
2. The whole of the purposes of thetrade union, and the purposes for which its funds maybe
applied.
3. The subscriptions and dues, ifany, which members are required to pay.
4. If the trade union is to provide benefits for it members, the conditions under which any
member will become entitled toanybenefit.
S. The fines and forfeitures which maybe imposed on members of the trade union.
6. The procedure formaking, altering or revoking the rules.
7. Aprovision fortheappointment and removal of appointed and elected officers.
[1999 No. I.]
8. The qualifications for membership of the trade union which shall include a provision to
the effect that such a person shall be normally engaged in the trade or industry or elected or
appointed torepresent workers' interest inthe said trade or industry.
9. A provision that the general committee of management (by whatever name called) shall
consist of allpersons allof whom aremembers of thetrade union.
[1999 No. I.)
10. Aprovision for the keeping of a nominal roll of members showing the trade, calling or
usual occupation ofeach member and, where possible (but only inthe case of atrade union of
workers) the name of hisemployer.
11. Aprovision forthe investment of the funds of thetrade union or their deposit inabank.
12. Aprovision for the keeping of full and accurate accounts bythe treasurer, for the annual
or more frequent periodical audit, by a person to be appointed by the trade union with the
approval of the Registrar, of the accounts so kept, and for their submission when audited, to
the members.
13. Aprovision forthe inspection of the books, accounts and nominal roll of members of the
trade union byanyperson who has an interest inthe funds of the union.
14. A provision that no member of the union shall take part in a strike unless a majority of
the members have inasecret ballot voted infavour of the strike.
Tl4 - 33 [Issue I]
CAP. Tl4
Trade Unions Act
15. The procedure for dissolving the trade union and for the distribution of its assets, if any.
SECOND SCHEDULE
[Section 55 (I).]
Repeals
Chapterornumber Title Extentofrepeal
Cap. 200 of the 1958 The Trade Union Act. The whole Act, including the Trade
Edition Union Registration Rules con-
tained in the Second Schedule
thereof.
1958 No. 31 The Civil Aviation (Fire and Section 24 (\)
Security Measures) Act 1958.
L.N. 258 of 1959 The Transfer of Function In the First Schedule, the entry
(Federation) Order 1959. relating to the Trade Unions Act.
L.N.II20fI964 The Adaptation of Laws, In the First Schedule, the entry
(Miscellaneous Provisions) relating to the Trade Unions Act.
Order 1964.
1970 No. 27 The Trade Unions (Amend- The whole Act.
ment) Act 1970.
1971 No. 39 The Trade Unions (Amend- The whole Act.
ment) Act 1971.
THIRD SCHEDULE
[Section 5(7), 17,34. 1996 No. 26.]
PART A
List of re-structured trade unions affiliated tothecentral labour organisation
I. Agricultural and Allied Workers Union of Nigeria.
2. Amalgamated Union of Public Corporations, Civil Service Technical and Recreational
Services Employees.
[Issue1] T14 - 34
CAP. T14
Trade Unions Act
3. Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria.
4. Medical and Health Workers Union of Nigeria.
5. National Association of Nigeria Nurses and Midwives.
6. National Union of Air Transport Employees.
7. National Union of Banks, Insurance and Financial Institutions Employees.
8. National Union of Chemical, Footwear, Rubber, Leather and Non-metallic Products Em-
ployees.
[1999 No. I.J
9. National Union of Civil Engineering Construction, Furniture and Wood Workers.
10. National Union of Electricity Workers.
11. National Union of Food, Beverage and Tobacco Employees.
12. National Union of Hotel and Personal Services Workers.
13. National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers.
14. National Union of Postal and Telecommunication Employees.
15. National Union of Printing, Publishing and Paper Products.
16. National Union of Road Transport Workers.
17. National Union of Shop and Distributive Employees.
18. National Union of Textiles Garment and Tailoring Workers.
19. Nigeria Civil Service Union.
20. Nigeria Union of Civil Service Secretarial and Stenographic Workers.
21. Nigeria Union of Journalists.
22. Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees.
23. Nigeria Union of Mine Workers.
24. Nigeria Union of Pensioners.
25. Nigeria Union of Railway Men.
26. Nigeria Union of Teachers.
27. Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions.
[1999 No. I.)
28. Radio, Television and Theatre Workers Union.
29. Steel and Engineering Workers Union of Nigeria.
30. Any other workers' trade union registered under this Act and published, from time to
time, in the Federal Gazette.
[1999 No. I.)
TI4 - 35 [Issue I)
CAP.Tl4
Trade Unions Act
THIRD SCHEDULE
PARTB
[Section 34 (3).)
Thejurisdictional scope ofeach ofthe re-structured trade unions
No. TradeUnions AreaofJurisdiction
1. Agricultural and Allied Workers Un- Workers in all agricultural and livestock produc-
ion of Nigeria. tion, plantations; agricultural services including
animal husbandry; fishing and horticulture; vet-
erinary services, pest control; irrigation services
(River Basin services). Forestry, logging and
game reserves. Agricultural research institutions.
2. Amalgamated Union of Public Corpo- Alljunior staff employed in the Federal and State
rations, Civil Service Technical and Corporations; civil service employees classified
Recreational Services Employees. as technical; workers of sports commissions and
stadia; public recreation clubs by whatever name
called; swimming pools; amusement centres in-
cluding carnivals, circuses, zoological gardens
and services similarly classified, excluding Ra-
dio, Television, NITEL, NIPOST, Railways, Ni-
geria Airways and other corporation workers al-
ready unionised.
Components:
(1) Civii Service Technical Workers Union of
Nigeria.
(2) National Union of Public Corporation Em-
ployees.
(3) Recreational Services Employees Union.
3. Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria. All workers in the Nigerian Ports Authority and
all persons employed in the manning of ocean
going, inland waterways, coastal and harbour
vessels or crafts afloat. All dock-workers in-
cluding workers engaged by shipping, clearing
and forwarding agencies, but excluding manage-
rial, professional and administrative staff.
Components:
(I) Dock-Workers Union of Nigeria.
(2) Nigeria Ports Authority Workers Union.
(3) National Union of Seamen and Water
Transport Workers.
(4) Union of Shipping, Clearing and Forward-
ing Agencies Workers of Nigeria.
[Issue I) TI4 - 36
CAP.Tl4
Trade Unions Act
No. Trade Unions Area of Jurisdiction
4. Medical and Health Workers Union of All workers and those classified as para-medical,
Nigeria. engaged in health care institutions, general hos-
pitals, health management boards, corporately
owned medical and health institutions. In univer-
sity teaching hospitals, local government health
institutions covering the following para-medical
staff only: nurses, pharmacists, radiographers,
laboratory technologists, physiotherapists, op-
tometrists, dental technologists and hygienists,
limb makers, instrument engineers (or curators of
instruments), blood donor organisers, catering
officers (medical), leprosy control officers and
inspectors, dispensing assistants, nutritionists,
medical illustrators, midwives, medical ento-
mologists, medical social workers, x-ray techni-
cians, medical statistical assistants, assistant
physiotherapists, physiotherapy technicians, but
excluding pharmacists, nurses and midwives, ra-
diographers, medical laboratory technologists.
dental technologists.
5. National Association of Nigeria All nurses and midwives of all grades and by
Nurses and Midwives. whatever name called, qualified to register and
practice in Nigeria and who are salary earners,
engaged in local government owned hospitals or
health institutions; government health manage-
ment boards, specialist and general hospitals;
university teaching hospitals; nursing/maternity
homes. Corporately owned hospitals and private
health institutions.
6. National Union of Air Transport Em- All workers in commercial airlines, airport
ployees. authority, civil aviation authority and travel
agencies except those in professional and ad-
ministrative cadres.
7. National Union of Banks, Insurance Workers in banks and closely related institutions,
and Financial Institutions Employees. such as mortgage companies, industrial loan in-
stitutions, agricultural credit agencies, coperati ve
credit societies, investment companies, holding
companies. insurance carriers of all kinds; insur-
ance agents and brokers; organisations servicing
insurance carriers; consultants for policy holders;
adjusting agencies; other closely related institu-
tions not otherwise mentioned. all types of deal-
ers in real estate.
Tl4 - 37 [Issue I]
CAP. T14
Trade Unions Act
No. TradeUnions AreaofJurisdiction
8. National Union of Chemical, Foot- Workers in manufacture of basic industrial or-
wear, Rubber, Leather and Non- ganic and inorganic chemicals, except products
Metallic Products Employees. of petroleum and coal but including fertilizers,
explosives and fireworks, synthetic fibre and
rubber, resins, plastics, elastomers and vegetable
and animal oils and fats, including the production
of cake and meal by crushing or extractions from
oil seeds and nuts. Manufacture of medicinal and
pharmaceutical preparations, perfumes, cosmetics
and other toilet preparations. Soaps and other
washing and cleaning compounds including de-
tergents. Polishes, inks, matches, candles and in-
secticides. Manufacture of clay products such as
bricks, tiles, pipes, crucibles, architectural terra-
cotta, stove lining, chimney pipes, and tops and
refectories. Manufacture of glass and glass prod-
ucts except the grinding of optical lenses. Pot-
tery, china and earthenware. Manufacture of all
types of hydraulic cement such as portland.
Manufacture of concrete, gypsum and plaster
products. Stone products and other similar
chemical and non-metallic products. Manufacture
of all kinds of footwear, leggings and gaiters
from leather, fabrics, plastic, wood and other
materials. Tanning, currying, finishing, emboss-
ing and japanning of all kinds of hides and skins
and the manufacture of leather products such as
luggage handbags, pocket-books, saddlery, har-
ness whip and other articles made of leather and
leather products. Manufacture from natural or
synthetic rubber of all kinds of rubber products
such as tubes and tyres, vulcanized footwear, in-
dustrial and mechanical rubber goods and rubber
sundries such as mats, gloves, sponges and other
vulcanized articles. The reclaiming of rubber
from used tyres, scrap and miscellaneous waste
rubber. Rebuilding, retreading and vulcanising of
tyres. Dipping, mixing, rolling, cutting and re-
lated processing of natural rubber, except on
rubber plantations.
Components:
(I) National Union of Chemicals and Non-
Metallic Products Workers.
(2) Footwear, Leather and Rubber Products
Workers Unions ofNigeria.
[Issue I] Tl4 - 38
CAP. T14
Trade Unions Act
No. Trade Unions Area of Jurisdiction
9. National Union of Civil Engineering Workers inconstruction, repair and demolition of
Construction, Furniture and Wood buildings, highways, street and culverts. Heavy
Workers. construction of such projects as sewers and water
mains, railroads, piers, tunnels, subways, bridges
viaducts, dams, drainage projects, irrigation tlood
control projects, hydro-electrical plants, gas
mains and pipe-lines, marine, constructions such
as dredging, land drainage, reclamation and har-
bours, and waterways and airports. All other con-
struction works. Manufacture of household, of-
fice, public building, professional and restaurant
furniture. Office and stores fixtures, window and
door screens and shades, regardless of materials
used. Sawmills and planning mills. Manufacture
of lath, Shingles, co-apogee stock, veneers, ply-
wood and excelsior. Wood preserving and
manufacture of finished articles made entirely or
mainly of wood, bamboo, cane and cork. Manu-
facture of lumber, wooden building materials and
prefabricated parts and structures. Manufacture
of boxes, crates, drums barrels and other wooden
containers. Manufacture of baskets and other
rattan reed or willow containers.
Components:
(I) Nigeria Union of Construction and Civil
Engineering Workers.
(2) National Union of Furniture, Fixture and
Wood Workers.
10. National Union of Electricity Workers. Workers in generation, transmission and distri-
bution of electric light and other forms of energy;
excluding gas for public consumption, profes-
sionals and administrative cadres.
)). National Union of Food, Beverage and Workers engaged in manufacture of food for hu-
Tobacco Employees. man consumption and of related products such as
chewing gum, spices, prepared foods for animals
and fowls. Slaughtering, preparation and preser-
vation of meat. Manufacture of dairy products.
Canning and preserving of fish and other sea
foods. Manufacture of grain mill products.
Manufacture of bakery products. Sugar factories
and refineries. Manufacture of cocoa, chocolates
and sugar, confectionery and miscellaneous food
preparations. Distilling, rectifying and blending
of spirits. Wine industries. Breweries and manu-
facture of malt; manufacture of non-alcoholic
beverages such as soft drinks and carbonated
mineral waters. Manufacture of tobacco products.
Stemming, redrying and their operations con-
nected with preparing raw tobacco left for
manufacturing.
Tl4 - 39 [Issue I)
CAP. Tl4
Trade Unions Act
No. TradeUnions AreaofJurisdiction
12. National Union of Hotels and Personal Workers in services involving the care of the per-
Services Workers. son or his apparel. Hotels, restaurants, cafes, tav-
erns and other drinking and eating places. Laun-
dries and laundry services, cleaning and dyeing.
Barber and beauty shops, domestic services, por-
trait and commercial photographic studios,
shops, offices and cleaning. Security services,
recreational and tourist organisations in the pri-
vate sector and related services.
13. National Union of Petroleum and Workers in oil well and natural gas well opera-
Natural Gas Workers. tions including prospecting, drilling, crude oil
and natural gas pipelines. Refining, distribution
and marketing of natural gas, extraction oil and
natural gas and petroleum products including
petrol filling stations, petroleum tanker drivers,
but excluding the construction of oil and gas
pipelines.
14. National Union of Postal and Tele- Workers engaged in communication services
communication Employees. rendered to the public whether by post, telegraph,
telephone or radio including the installation and
maintenance of such services. But excluding
professional and administrative cadres.
15. National Union of Printing, Publishing Workers in private and public printing works,
and Paper Products. lithographing and publishing newspapers, peri-
odicals. Books, maps, atlases, sheet music and di-
rectories. Manufacture of greeting cards, book-
binding, paper ruling and other works related to
book-binding, services for the printing trade such
as typesetting, engraving, electro-typing and ste-
reo-typing. Paper and paper board mills and the
manufacture of pulp. Manufacture of press and
pulp plates and utensils, paper bags, boxes and
other containers, cards and envelopes and sta-
tionery, wall paper, toilet paper, straws and other
articles made of wood, rags, paper and paper
board.
Components:
(I) National Union of Paper Products Workers.
(2) National Union of Printing and Publishing
Workers.
16. National Union of Road Transport All workers engaged in transportation of passen-
Workers. gers and goods by road, excluding the transpor-
tation of petroleum by road and transportation
undertaken by self employed persons.
[IssueI) Tl4 -40
CAP. Tl4
Trade Unions Act
No. Trade Unions Area ofJurisdiction
17. National Union of Shop and Distribu- Workers in wholesale and retail trade. The re-sale
tive Employees. (sale without transformation) of goods to busi-
ness unit and to institutions and government. Im-
ports and exports. Manufacturers, sales offices
and agencies. Commission merchants and com-
modity brokers. Assembling and buying of farm
products and co-operative agricultural marketing
associations. Re-sale of industrial and construc-
tion materials, machinery, business and profes-
sional equipment. Re-sale (sale without trans-
formation) of goods for personal or house-hold
consumption or utilisation. Consumer co-
operatives.
18. National Union of Textiles Garment Workers engaged in manufacture of textile in-
and Tailoring Workers. cluding the preparation of textile fibre for spin-
ning, weaving and finishing, knitting mills, cord-
age, rope twine and thread industries. Manufac-
ture of weaving apparel and make-up textiles.
Manufacture of carpets, rugs, oil-cloth, linoleum,
artificial leather, waterproofing fabrics and jute
mills.
19. Nigeria Civil Service Union. All junior employees of the Federal and Slate
civil service but excluding enforcement employ-
ees in the Nigerian Customs and Immigration
Services Technical, typists, stenographic. Medi-
cal, nurses and midwives and recognised profes-
sional and administrative cadres.
20. Nigeria Union of Civil Service Secre- All typists and stenographic staff employed by
tariat and Stenographic. the Federal and State Governments.
21. Nigeria Union ofJournalists. All registered journalists in paid employment in
media houses, except proprietors and the self-
employed.
22. Nigeria Union of Local Government All workers in the local government councils
Employees. with the exclusion of teachers and the following
para-medical staff in the local government health
institutions:-nurses, pharmacists, radiographers,
laboratory technologists, physiotherapists. occu-
pational therapists, speech therapists, optometri-
cians, audiometricians, limbfitters, dieticians,
dental technologists and hygienists. limb makers,
instrument engineer (or curators of instruments),
blood donor organisers, catering officers (medi-
cal), health superintendents, stores officers
(medical), leprosy control officers and inspectors,
dispensing assistants, nutritionists, medical illus-
trators, midwives, medical entomologists, medi-
cal statistical assistants, assistant physiothera-
pists, physiotherapy technicians.
T14-41 [Issue I]
CAP. Tl4
Trade Unions Act
No. Trade Unions Area ofJurisdiction
23. Nigeria Union of Mine Workers. Workers engaged in extraction of coal, metallif-
erous and non-metalliferous ores excluding pe-
troleum but including prospecting and preparing
sites for the extraction of these ores. Also in-
cluded are all supplemental operations for dress-
ing and beneficiating ores and other crude miner-
als, such as breaking, milling, grinding pulveriz-
ing, washing, cleaning, grading, quarrying as an
enterprise. Salt mining. Chemical and fertilizer
mineral mining enterprises are also included.
Components:
(1) Metallic and Non-Metallic Mines Workers
Union.
(2) Nigeria Coal Miners Unions.
24. Nigeria Union of Pensioners. All pensioners from the civil service of the Fed-
eration including local government, statutory
corporations, government-owned companies,
educational institutions for which the Govern-
ment of the Federation is responsible. All such
similar establishments. Also private sector pen-
sioners.
25. Nigeria Union of Railway Men. Workers in Nigeria Railway Transport, excluding
professionals and administrative cadres.
26. Nigeria Union ofTeachers. Teachers employed in educational institutions of
all types but excluding Universities, Polytech-
nics, Colleges of Education and other tertiary in-
stitutions.
27. Non-Academic Staff Union of Educa- All non-academic workers employed in publicly
tional and Associated Institutions. and privately owned education, research and as-
sociated institutions including university teach-
ing hospitals except professional, administrative,
medical and para-medical staff such as nurses,
pharmacists, radiographers, laboratory technolo-
gists, physiotherapists, occupational therapists,
speech therapists, optometricians, audiornetri-
cians, limb fitters, dieticians, dental technologists
and hygienists, limb makers, instrument engi-
neers (or curators of instruments), blood donor
organisers, catering officers (medical), health su-
perintendents, stores officers (medical), leprosy
control officers and inspectors; dispensing assis-
tants, nutritionists, medical illustrators, mid-
wives, medical entomologists, medical social
workers, x-ray technicians, medical statistical as-
sistants, assistant physiotherapists, physiotherapy
technicians.
[Issue I] T14-42
CAP. T14
Trade Unions Act
No. Trade Unions Area ofJurisdiction
28. Radio, Television Service Union. Workers engaged in Radio, Television, Theatre,
motion picture production, distribution and pro-
jection; operation of cinemas and services allied
to the foregoing including workers in the music
industry and Arts Councils.
[1999 No. I.J
29. Steel and Engineering Workers Union Workers engaged in manufacture, assemhly, sale
of Nigeria. and service of electronic, precision and electrical
equipment and appliances, measuring, control-
ling, laboratory and scientific instruments, surgi-
cal, medical and dental instruments, optical and
photographic goods, watches, clocks and horo-
logical equipment, musical instruments, security
equipments. Manufacture of basic metal form
into finished products such as tin cans and other
tin ware, hand tools, cutlery and hardware, hol-
low ware, metal stampings, lighting fixtures, fab-
ricated wire products, metal shipping containers,
safes and vaults, steel springs, bolts, nuts, wash-
ers, rivets, collapsible tubes, ordinance including
small and arms and accessories. Fabrication of
steel works including the erection of steel works
such as welding for bridges, industrial ware
houses, tanks and motor lorry bodies. Industries
engaged in enamelling, japanning and lacquer-
ing, galvanising, plating and polishing metal
products, blacksmithing and welding. The
manufacture ofbasic iron and steel products. The
manufacture of hasic non-ferrous metal products,
consisting of all processes from smelting, alloy-
ing, refining, rolling, drawing, foundry and cast-
ing.
The manufacture and assembly of complete mo-
tor vehicles such as passenger automobiles,
commercial cars and buses, trucks and truck
trailers universal carriers, and special purpose
motor vehicles such as (ambulances, taxi cabs,
etc.) Manufacture of motor vehicle parts and ac-
cessories such as engines, brakes, clutches axles
gears, transmissions, wheel and frame but ex-
cluding tires and tubes. Repair of motor vehicles,
manufacture of motorcycles, scooters, bicycles,
tricycles, pedicabs and parts including animal
drawn and hand drawn vehicles. Shipyards and
boatyards engaged in building and repair work.
Specialised marine and ship parts manufacture
and assembly. Ship braking yards. Manufacture
and assemhly of other types of transport equip-
ment. Sales and servicing of vehicles.
TI4 - 43 [Issue I)
CAP.Tl4
Trade Unions Act
No. TradeUnions AreaofJurisdiction
Components:
(I) MetalProductsWorkersUnionofNigeria.
(2) IronandSteelWorkersUnionofNigeria.
(3) Automobile, Boatyards, Transport and
Equipment and Allied Workers Union of
Nigeria.
(4) Precision Electrical and Related Equipment
WorkersUnion(PEREWU).
PARTC
Senior staff and employers' associations
l. National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers.
[1999 No. I.]
2. Nigerian Union of Pharmacists, Medical Technologists and Professions Allied to Medi-
cine.
3. Nigerian Merchant Navy Officers' and Waters Transport Senior Staff Association.
4. Academic Staff Union of Universities.
5. Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria.
6. Association of Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and Financial Institutions.
7. Food, Beverage andTobacco Senior Staff Association.
8. Shop and Distributive Trade Senior Staff Association.
9. Construction and Civil Engineering Senior Staff Association.
10. Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association ofNigeria.
II. Chemical and Non-Metallic Products Senior Staff Association.
12. Footwear, Leather and Rubber Products Senior Staff Association.
13. Senior Staff Association of Shipping, Clearing and Forwarding Agencies.
14. Textiles, Garment andTailoring Senior Staff Association.
15. Automobile, Boatyard, Transport Equipment and Allied Senior Staff Association.
16. Senior Staff Association of Statutory Corporations and Government owned Companies.
17. Senior Staff Association of Universities, Teaching Hospitals, Research Institutes and
Associated Institutions.
18. Metal Products Senior Staff Association of Nigeria.
19. Precision, Electrical and Related Equipment Senior Staff Association.
20. Hotel and Personal Services Senior Staff Association.
21. Paper and Paper Products Senior Staff Association.
22. Agricultural and Allied Senior Staff Association.
23. National Union of Agricultural and Allied Employers.
24. National Union ofDock Labour Employers.
25. Nigeria Employers' Association of Banks, Insurance and Allied Institutions.
[Issue I] T14-44
CAP.Tl4
Trade Unions Act
26. Association of Food, Beverage andTobacco Employers.
27. Hotel and Personal Services Employers' Association.
28. Construction and Civil Engineering Employers' Association of Nigeria.
29. Road Transport Employers' Association.
30. Precision, Electrical and Related Equipment Employers Association.
31. Iron and Steel Senior Staff Association of Nigeria.
32. Automobile, Boatyard, Transport Equipment and Allied Employers Association.
33. Iron and Steel Employers Association ofNigeria.
34. Shipping, Shipping Agencies, Clearing andForwarding Employers Association.
35. Performing Musician Employers Association.
36. Association of Furniture, Fixtures and Woodworking Employers of Nigeria.
37. Nigerian Textiles, Garments andTailoring Employers Association.
38. Shop and Distributive Trade Employers Association.
39. AirTransport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria.
40. Chemical andNon-Metallic Products Employers Federation.
41. Association of Metal Products Employers ofNigeria.
42. Employers Association of Leather, Footwear and Rubber Industries of Nigeria.
43. Association of Iron and Steel Employers of Nigeria.
44. Paper and Paper-Board Manufacturers andConverters Association.
45. Anyother Unions of Senior Staff registered after 3August, 1977.
CHAPTERT14
TRADE UNIONS ACT
SUBSIDIARY LEGISLATION
List of Subsidiary Legislation
I. TradeUnion(CompulsoryRecognition)Order.
2. Trade Unions(Prohibition)(FederalFireService)Order.
3. TradeUnion(CompulsoryRecognition)(No.2) Order.
Tl4 -45 [Issue lJ
CAP. T14
Trade Unions Act
TRADE UNION (COMPULSORY RECOGNITION) ORDER
[L.N. 18of 1976.]
under section 25
[27th March, 1976]
lCommencement.]
1. Compulsory recognition order in respect of Michelin (Nig.) Ltd and a trade
union
(I) The Consolidated Petroleum, Chemical and General Workers' Union of Nigeria is
entitled to be recognised by Michelin (Nigeria) Limited as representing thejunior workers
in the employment of that company.
(2) Accordingly, with effect from the publication of this Order in the Federal Gazette,
the said union shall be recognised by Michelin (Nigeria) Limited as representing thejun-
ior workers of the company and shall be so dealt with by the company for the following
purposes, that isto say-
(a) collective bargaining in respect of-
(i) wages and salaries of thejunior workers;
(ii) hours of work and general conditions of service of the said workers;
and
(b) such other ancillary matters as are normally within the competence of a trade
union.
2. Short title
This Order may be cited as the Trade Union (Compulsory Recognition) Order.
TRADE UNIONS (PROHIBITION) (FEDERAL FIRE SERVICE) ORDER
[L.N. 42 of 1976.]
under section II (1)
[21st May, 1976J
[Commencement.]
1. Employees of the Federal Fire Service prohibited from forming or joining trade
union
The Federal Fire Service is hereby specified as an establishment to which sec-
tion II (I) of the Trade Unions Act applies; accordingly, as from the commencement of
this Order, it shall not be lawful for persons employed in the Federal Fire Service to com-
bine, organise themsel yes or become members of a trade union.
[Cap. T14.]
(IssueI] T14 - 46
CAP. T14
Trade Unions Act
2. Short title
This Order may be cited as the Trade Unions (Prohibition) (Federal Fire Service) Or-
der.
TRADE UNION (COMPULSORY RECOGNITION) (No.2) ORDER
[L.N. 69 of 1976.]
under section 25
[19th August, 1976]
[Cornmencement.]
1. Compulsory recognition order in respect of Lagos Airport Hotel Limited and a
trade union
(I) The Food and Drinks Workers' Union of Nigeria is entitled to be recognised by
Lagos Airport Hotel Limited, as representing the junior workers in the employment of
that company.
(2) Accordingly, with effect from the publication of this Order in the Federal Gazette,
the said union shall be recognised by Lagos Airport Hotel Limited as representing the
junior workers of the company and shall be so dealt with by the company for the follow-
ing purposes, that is to say-
(a) collective bargaining in respect of-
(i) wages and salaries of thejunior workers;
(ii) hours of work and general conditions of service of the said workers;
and
(b) such other ancillary matters as are normally within the competence of a trade
union.
2. Short title
This Order may be cited as the Trade Union (Compulsory Recognition) (No.2) Order.
TI4 - 47 [Issue JJ
