CAP.T13
Trade Marks Act
CHAPTER T13
TRADE MARKS ACT
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
TheRegistrar and the register
SECTION
I. The Registrar ofTrade Marks.
2. The register.
Effects of registration and non-registration
3. Effect of non-registration.
4. Registration tobe inrespect of particular goods.
5. Right given by registration inPart A.
6. Right given by registration inPart B.
7. Saving for vested rights.
8. Saving for use ofname, address or description of goods.
Registrability and validity of registration
9. Distinctiveness needed for registration in Part A.
10. Capability ofdistinguishing trade mark needed for registration in Part B.
II. Deceptive or scandalous matter not registrable.
12. Names of chemical substances not tobe registered.
13. Identical and resembling trade marks not be registered.
14. Part Aregistration conclusively valid after seven years.
15. Disclaimer for purposes of registration.
16. Registration with or without limitation asto colour.
Procedurefor andduration of registration
17. Preliminary advice on distinctiveness.
18. Application for registration.
19. Publication ofnotice of application.
20. Opposition toregistration.
21. Appeal from Registrar's decision on opposed application.
22. Registration.
23. Duration and renewal ofregistration.
24. Separate registration of part oftrade mark.
25. Registration ofresembling trade marks as aseries.
Assignment and transmission
26. Assignability oftrade marks.
27. Power of Registrar to require, ordissolve, association oftrade marks.
28. Effect of association oftrade marks.
Tl3 -1 [Issue I]
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
SECTION
29. Registered proprietor's power to assign.
30. Registration of assignments, etc.
Useand non-use
31. Removal from register on ground ofnon-use.
32. Defensive registration of well-known invented words.
33. Registered users.
34. Provisions supplementary to section 33.
35. Registration with a view to assignment to company about to be formed, etc.
36. Use ofone trade mark equivalent to use of another incertain cases.
37. Use of trade mark in relation togoods for export.
Rectification and correction of register
38. General power to rectify register.
39. Power to strike out or vary registration for breach ofcondition.
40. Correction of register.
41. Alteration ofregistered trade mark.
42. Adaptation of register to revised classification ofgoods.
Certification trade marks
43. Certification trade marks.
International arrangements
44. International arrangements.
Regulations
45. Power to make regulations.
Powers andduties ofRegistrar
46. Duty of Registrar, ifrequired, to hear certain persons.
47. Power of Registrar to award costs.
48. Annual reports of Registrar.
Legal proceedings and appeals
49. Registration tobeprimafacie evidence of validity.
50. Certiticate of validity.
51. Costs ofRegistrar, etc.
52. Trade usage, etc.. to be considered.
53. Registrar's appearance inproceedings involving rectification.
54. Court's power to review Registrar's decisions.
55. Powers ofcourt on appeal.
56. Procedure incases ofoption to apply to court or Registrar.
Evidence
57. Method of giving evidence, etc.
58. Evidence ofentries in register.
[Issue I] Tl3 - 2
CAP.T13
Trade Marks Act
SECTION
59. Evidence ofthings done byRegistrar.
Offences, and restraint of use of Arms of Nigeria, etc.
60. Falsification of register.
61. Falsely representing trade mark as registered.
62. Restraint ofuse ofArms of Nigeria or of aState, etc.
Miscellaneous and supplemental
63. The Trade Marks Journal.
64. Joint proprietorship of trade mark.
65. Trusts and equities.
66. Recognition of agents.
67. Interpretation.
68. Transitional provisions, repeal and savings.
69. Short title.
SCHEDULES
FIRST SCHEDULE
Certification trade marks
SECOND SCHEDULE
Transitional provisions
THIRD SCHEDULE
Repeals
CHAPTER T13
TRADE MARKS ACT
An Act to repeal the Trade Marks Act and make new provisions with respect to
trade marks in place thereof and for connected purposes.
[1965No. 29.]
[1st June, 1967]
LCommencement.]
The Registrar and the register
1. The Registrar of Trade Marks
(I) There shall continue to be an officer known as the Registrar of Trade Marks
(in this Act referred to as "the Registrar") who shall be appointed by the Federal Civil
T13-3 (Issue II
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
Service Commission and whose office shall be situated in the Federal Capital Territory,
Abuja.
(2) The Registrar shall in the exercise of his functions, other than the taking of any
decision which under this Act is subject to appeal to the court, act under the general di-
rection of the Minister.
(3) Any act or thing directed to be done by or to the Registrar may be done by or to
any other officer in the public service of the Federation authorised by the Minister.
(4) The Registrar shall have an official seal which shall be officially and judicially
noticed.
2. The register
(I) There shall continue to be kept the record called the register of trade marks, in
which shall be entered all registered trade marks with the names and addresses of their
proprietors, the date on which applications were made for their registration, notifications
of assignments and transmissions, the names and addresses of all registered users and
such other matters relating to registered trade marks as may be prescribed.
(2) The register shall continue to be kept under the control and management of the
Registrar at the Registrar's office.
(3) The register shall continue to be divided into two parts called respectively Part A
and Part B.
(4) The register shall at all convenient times be open to the inspection of the public,
subject to such rules as may be prescribed.
Effects of registration and non-registration
3. Effect of non-registration
No person shall be entitled to institute any proceeding to prevent, or to recover dam-
ages for, the infringement of an unregistered trade mark; but nothing in this Act shall be
taken to affect rights of action against any person for passing off goods as the goods of
another person or the remedies in respect thereof.
4. Registration to bein respect ofparticular goods
A trade mark must be registered in respect of particular goods or classes of goods, and
any question arising as to the class within which any goods fall shall be determined by
the Registrar, whose decision shall be final.
5. Right given by registration in Part A
(I) Subject to the provisions of this section and of sections 7 and 8 of this Act, the
registration (whether before or after the commencement of this Act) of a person in Part A
of the register as proprietor of a trade mark (other than a certification trade mark) in re-
spect of any goods, shall, if valid, give or be deemed to have given to that person the ex-
clusive right to the use of that trade mark in relation to those goods.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the right to the use of atrade mark given by
such registration as aforesaid, that right shall be deemed to be infringed by any person
[Issue 1] Tl3 -4
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
who, not being the proprietor of the trade mark or a registered user thereof, using it by
way of the permitted use, uses a mark identical with it or so nearly resembling itas to be
likely to deceive or cause confusion, in the course of trade, in relation to any goods in
respect of which it is registered, and in such manner as to render the use of the mark
likely to be taken either-
(a) as being used as atrade mark; or
(b) in a case in which the use is use upon the goods or in physical relation thereto
or in an advertising circular or other advertisement issued to the public, as im-
porting a reference to some person having the right either as proprietor or as
registered user to use the trade mark or to goods with which such a person as
aforesaid isconnected in the course of trade.
(3) The right to the use of a trade mark given by such registration as aforesaid shall
be subject to any conditions or limitations entered on the register, and the use of any such
mark as aforesaid in any circumstances to which, having regard to any such limitations,
the registration does not extend, shall not constitute an infringement of that right.
(4) The use of a registered trade mark, being one of two or more registered trade
marks that are identical or nearly resemble each other, in the exercise of the right to the
use of that trade mark given by such registration as aforesaid, shall not constitute an in-
fringement of the right to the use of any other of those trade marks given by such regis-
tration.
6. Right given by registration in Part B
(I) Except as provided by subsection (2) of this section, the registration (whether be-
fore or after the commencement of this Act) of a person in Part B of the register as pro-
prietor of a trade mark in respect of any goods, shall, if valid, give or be deemed to have
given to that person the like right in relation to those goods as if the registration had been
in Part A of the register, and section 5(2) to (4) of this Act shall apply in relation to a
trade mark registered in Part B accordingly.
(2) In any action for infringement of the right to the use of a trade mark given by
such registration as aforesaid in Part B of the register, no injunction or other relief shall
be granted to the plaintiff if the defendant establishes to the satisfaction of the court that
the use of which the plaintiff complains is not likely to deceive or cause confusion or to
lead to the belief in a connection in the course of trade between the goods and some per-
son entitled either as proprietor or as aregistered user to use the trade mark.
7. Saving for vested rights
Nothing in this Act shall entitle the proprietor or a registered user of a registered trade
mark to interfere with or restrain the use by any person of a trade mark identical with or
nearly resembling it in relation to goods in relation to which that person or a predecessor
in title of his has continuously used that trade mark from adate previous to-
(a) the use of the first-mentioned trade mark in relation to those goods by the pro-
prietor or apredecessor intitle of his; or
(b) the registration of the first-mentioned trade mark in respect of those goods in
the name of the proprietor or a predecessor in title of his,
T13-5 [Issue II
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
whichever first occurred, or (where such use is proved) to object to that person being put
on the register for that identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of those goods
under section 13(2) of this Act.
8. Saving for use of name, address or description of goods
The registration of a trade mark shall not interfere with-
(a) any bona fide use by a person of his own name or the name of his place of
business, or of the name, or the name of the place of business, of any of his
predecessors in business; or
(b) the use by any person of any bona fide description of the character or quality
of his goods, not being a description that would be likely to be taken as im-
porting any such reference as is mentioned in section 5 (2) (b) or 43 (4) (b) of
this Act.
Registrability and validity of registration
9. Distinctiveness needed for registration in Part A
(1) In order for a trade mark (other than acertification trade mark) to be registrable in
Part A of the register, it must contain or consist of at least one of the following essential
particulars-
(a) the name of a company, individual, or firm, represented in a special or par-
ticular manner;
(b) the signature of the applicant for registration or some predecessor in his busi-
ness;
(c) an invented word or invented words;
(d) a word or words having no direct reference to the character or quality of the
goods, and not being, according to its ordinary signification, a geographical
name or a surname;
(e) any other distinctive mark:
Provided that a name, signature or word or words other than such as fall within
paragraphs (a) to (d) of this section, shall not be registrable under paragraph (e) of this
section, except upon evidence of its distinctiveness.
(2) For the purposes of this section, "distinctive" means adapted, in relation to the
goods in respect of which a trade mark is registered or proposed to be registered, to dis-
tinguish goods with which the proprietor of the trade mark is or may be connected in the
course of trade, from goods in the case of which no such connection subsists, either gen-
erally or, where the trade mark is registered or proposed to be registered subject to limi-
tations, in relation to use within the extent of the registration.
(3) In determining whether a trade mark is adapted to distinguish as aforesaid, the
tribunal may have regard to the extent to which-
(a) the trade mark is inherently adapted to distinguish as aforesaid; and
(b) by reason of the use of the trade mark or of any other circumstances, the trade
mark is in fact adapted to distinguish as aforesaid.
[Issue I] TI3 -6
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
10. Capability ofdistinguishing trade mark needed for registration in Part B
(I) In order for a trade mark to be registrable in Part B of the register, it must be ca-
pable, inrelation to the goods in respect of which it is registered or proposed to be regis-
tered, of distinguishing goods with which the proprietor of the trade mark is or may be
connected in the course of trade from goods in the case of which no such connection sub-
sists, either generally or, where the trade mark is registered or proposed to be registered
subject to limitations, in relation to use within the extent of the registration.
(2) In determining whether a trade mark iscapable of distinguishing as aforesaid, the
tribunal may have regard to the extent to which-
(a) the trade mark is inherently capable of distinguishing as aforesaid; and
(b) by reason of the use of the trade mark or of any other circumstances, the trade
mark is in fact capable of distinguishing as aforesaid.
(3) A trade mark may be registered in Part B notwithstanding any registration in Part
A inthe name of the same proprietor of the same trade mark or any part or parts thereof.
11. Deceptive or scandalous matter not registrable
It shall not be lawful to register as a trade mark or part of a trade mark-
(a) any matter the use of which would, by reason of its being likely to deceive or
cause confusion or otherwise, be disentitled to protection in a court of justice
or be contrary to law or morality; or
(b) any scandalous design.
12. Names ofchemical substances not to be registered
(I) Subject to this section, no word which is the commonly used and accepted name
of any single chemical element or single chemical compound, as distinguished from a
mixture, shall be registered as a trade mark in respect of achemical substance or prepara-
tion; and any such registration in force at the commencement of this Act or thereafter
shall, notwithstanding anything in section 14 of this Act, be treated for the purposes of
section 38 of this Act as being an entry made in the register without sufficient cause, or
an entry wrongly remaining on the register, as the case may require.
(2) The foregoing subsection shall not apply in relation to a word which is used to
denote only a brand or make of such an element or compound as made by the proprietor
or a registered user of the trade mark as distinguished from that element or compound as
made by others, and in association with a suitable name or description open to the public
use.
13. Identical and resembling trade marks not to be registered
(I) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2) of this section, no trade mark shall be
registered in respect of any goods or description of goods that is identical with a trade
mark belonging to adifferent proprietor and already on the register in respect of the same
goods or description of goods, or that so nearly resembles such a trade mark as to be
likely to deceive or cause confusion.
TI3 -7 [Issue I]
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
(2) In case of honest concurrent use, or other special circumstances which, in the
opinion of the court or the Registrar, make it proper so to do, the court or the Registrar
may permit the registration of trade marks that are identical or nearly resemble each other
in respect of the same goods or description of goods by more than one proprietor subject
to such conditions and limitations, if any, as the court or the Registrar, as the case may
be, may think itright to impose.
(3) Where separate applications are made by different persons to be registered in re-
spect of the same goods or description of goods as proprietors respectively of trade marks
that are identical or nearly resemble each other, the Registrar may refuse to register any
of them until their rights have been determined by the court or have been settled by
agreement in a manner approved-
(a) by the Registrar; or
(b) by the court on an appeal from the Registrar.
14. Part Aregistration conclusively valid after seven years
(I) In all legal proceedings relating to a trade mark registered in Part A of the register
(including applications under section 38 of this Act) the original registration of the trade
mark in Part A of the register shall, after the expiration of seven years from the date of
that registration, be taken to be valid in all respects, unless-
(a) that registration was obtained by fraud; or
(b) the trade mark offends against the provisions of section II of this Act.
(2) Nothing in section 6 (I) of this Act shall be construed as making applicable to a
trade mark, as being a trade mark registered in Part B of the register, the foregoing provi-
sions of this section relating to atrade mark registered in Part A of the register.
15. Disclaimer for purposes ofregistration
If atrade mark-
(a) contains any part not separately registered by the proprietor as atrade mark; or
(b) contains matter common to the trade or otherwise of a non-distinctive charac-
ter,
the Registrar or the court, in deciding whether the trade mark shall be entered or shall
remain on the register, may require, as acondition of its being on the register-
(i) that the proprietor shall disclaim any right to the exclusive use of any part of
the trade mark, or to the exclusive use of all or any portion of any such mat-
ter as aforesaid, to the exclusive use of which the tribunal holds him not to
be entitled; or
(ii) that the proprietor shall make such other disclaimer as the tribunal may con-
sider necessary for the purpose of defining his rights under the registration:
Provided that no disclaimer on the register shall affect any rights of the proprietor
of a trade mark except such as arise out of the registration of the trade mark in respect of
which the disclaimer is made.
[Issue I] Tl3 - 8
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
16. Registration with or without limitation as to colour
(I) A trade mark may be limited in whole or in part to one or more specified colours,
and in any such case the fact that it is so limited shall be taken into consideration by any
tribunal having to decide on the distinctive character of the trade mark.
(2) If and so far as a trade mark is registered without limitation of colour, it shall be
taken to be registered for all colours.
Procedure for and duration of registration
17. Preliminary advice on distinctiveness
(I) Any person proposing to apply for the registration of a trade mark in Part A or
Part B of the register may, if he so desires, apply to the Registrar in the prescribed man-
ner for advice as to whether the trade mark appears to the Registrar prima facie to be in-
herently adapted to distinguish, or capable of distinguishing, as the case may be; and the
Registrar shall have power to give the advice asked for inthe application.
(2) If an application for the registration of a trade mark, as to which the Registrar has
given advice under this section in the affirmative, is made within three months after the
giving of the advice, and the Registrar, after further investigation or consideration, gives
to the applicant under section 18of this Act notice of his objection to the acceptance of
the application on the ground that the trade mark is not adapted to distinguish, or not ca-
pable of distinguishing, as the case may be, the applicant shall be entitled, on giving no-
tice of withdrawal of the application within the prescribed period, to have repaid to him
any fee paid on the filing of the application.
18. Application for registration
(l) Any person claiming to be the proprietor of a trade mark used, or proposed to be
used, by him who isdesirous of registering it must apply in writing to the Registrar in the
prescribed manner for registration either in Part A or in Part B of the register.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Registrar may refuse the application, or
may accept it absolutely or subject to such amendments, modifications, conditions or
limitations, ifany, as he may think right.
(3) In the case of an application for registration of a trade mark (other than a certifi-
cation trade mark) in Part A of the register, the Registrar may, if the applicant is willing,
instead of refusing the application, treat it as an application for registration in Part Band
deal with the application accordingly.
(4) In the case of a refusal or conditional acceptance, the Registrar shall, if required
by the applicant, state in writing the grounds of his decision and the materials used by
him in arriving thereat, and the decision shall be subject to appeal to the court.
(5) An appeal under this section shall be made in the prescribed manner, and on the
appeal the court shall, ifrequired, hear the applicant and the Registrar, and shall make an
order determining whether, and subject to what amendments, modifications, conditions or
limitations, ifany, the application isto be accepted.
(6) Appeals under this section shall be heard on the materials stated by the Registrar
in pursuance of subsection (4) of this section, and no further grounds of objection to the
TI3 -9 [Issue I)
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
acceptance of the application shall be allowed to be taken by the Registrar, other than
those so stated by him, except by leave of the court; and if any further grounds of objec-
tion are taken, the applicant shall be entitled to withdraw his application without payment
of costs on giving such notice as may be prescribed.
(7) The Registrar or the court may at any time, whether before or after acceptance,
correct any error in or in connection with the application, or may permit the applicant to
amend his application upon such terms as the Registrar or the court, as the case may be,
thinks tit.
19. Publication of notice of application
(I) Subject to the provisions of this section, when an application for registration of a
trade mark has been accepted, whether absolutely or subject to conditions or limitations,
the Registrar shall, as soon as may be after acceptance, cause notice of the application as
accepted to be published in the Journal; and the notice shall set out all conditions and
limitations subject to which the application has been accepted.
(2) In the case of an application made under section 9 (l) (e) of this Act, or in any
other case where it appears to him that it is expedient by reason of any exceptional cir-
cumstances to do so, the Registrar may cause notice of an application for registration of a
trade mark to be published in the Journal before acceptance.
(3) Where, under subsection (2) of this section, notice of such an application has been
published in the Journal before acceptance, the Registrar may, if he thinks tit, cause no-
tice of the application to be published in the Journal again when it has been accepted, but
shall not be bound to do so.
20. Opposition to registration
(I) Any person may within two months from the date of the publication under sec-
tion 19of this Act of notice of an application give notice to the Registrar of opposition to
the registration.
(2) The notice shall be given in writing in the prescribed manner, and shall include a
statement of the grounds of opposition.
(3) The Registrar shall send a copy of every such notice to the applicant; and within
one month after the date on which the copy is received by the applicant the applicant
shall send to the Registrar in the prescribed manner a counter-statement of the grounds on
which he relies for his application and, if he does not do so, shall be treated as having
abandoned his application.
(4) If the applicant sends such a counter-statement as aforesaid, the Registrar shall
furnish a copy thereof to the persons giving notice of opposition, and shall, after hearing
the parties, if so required, and considering the evidence, decide whether, and subject to
what conditions or limitations, if any, registration isto be permitted.
(5) The Registrar may request a person giving notice of opposition or an applicant
sending a counter-statement after receipt of a copy of such a notice, to give security for
costs of the proceedings before him relating to the opposition, and in default of such se-
curity being duly given may treat the opposition or application, as the case may be, as
abandoned.
[Issue 1] T13 - 10
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
21. Appeal from Registrar's decision on opposed application
(I) Adecision of the Registrar under section 20 (4) of this Act shall be subject to ap-
peal to the court.
(2) An appeal under this section shall be made in the prescribed manner, and on the
appeal the court, shall, if required, hear the parties and the Registrar, and shall make an
order determining whether, and subject to what conditions or limitations, if any, registra-
tion is to be permitted.
(3) On the hearing of an appeal under this section, any party may, either in such
manner as may be prescribed or by special leave of the court, bring forward further mate-
rial for the consideration of the court
(4) On an appeal under this section, no further ground of opposition to the registra-
tion of a trade mark shall be allowed to be taken by an opponent or the Registrar, other
than those stated in pursuance of section 20 of this Act by that or any other opponent,
except by leave of the court; and if any further grounds of opposition are taken, the appli-
cant shall be entitled, on giving such notice as may be prescribed, to withdraw his appli-
cation without payment of the costs of the opponent or any of the opponents.
(5) On an appeal under this section, the court may, after hearing the Registrar, permit
the trade mark proposed to be registered to be modified in any manner not substantially
affecting its identity, but in any such case the trade mark as so modified shall be adver-
tised in the Journal in the prescribed manner before being registered.
(6) The court may require an appellant under this section to give security for costs of
the appeal, and in default of such security being duly given, may direct the appeal to be
treated as abandoned.
22. Registration
(l) When an application for registration of a trade mark in Part A or in Part B of the
register has been accepted, and either-
(a) the application has not been opposed and the time for notice of opposition has
expired; or
(b) the application has been opposed and the opposition has been decided in fa-
vour of the applicant,
the Registrar shall, unless the application has been accepted in error, register the trade
mark in Part Aor Part B, as the case may be.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act relating to international arrangements, a trade
mark, when registered, shall be registered as of the date of the application for registration,
and that date shall be taken for the purposes of this Act to be the date of registration.
(3) On the registration of a trade mark, the Registrar shall issue to the applicant a
certificate of registration in the prescribed form sealed with the seal of the Registrar.
(4) Where registration of a trade mark is not completed within twelve months from
the date of the application by reason of default on the part of the applicant, the Registrar
may, after giving notice of the non-completion to the applicant in writing in the
TI3 -II [Issue I]
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
prescribed manner, treat the application as abandoned unless it is completed within the
time specified in that behalf in the notice.
23. Duration and renewal ofregistration
(I) The registration of a trade mark shall be for a period of seven years, but may be
renewed from time to time in accordance with the provisions of this section:
Provided that, in relation to a registration as of a date before the commencement of
this Act, this subsection shall have effect with the substitution of a period of fourteen
years for the said period of seven years.
(2) The Registrar shall, on application made by the registered proprietor of a trade
mark in the prescribed manner and within the prescribed period, renew the registration of
the trade mark for a period of fourteen years from the date of expiration of the original
registration or of the last renewal of registration, as the case may be (which date is in the
section referred to as "the expiration of the last registration").
(3) At the prescribed time before the expiration of the last registration of a trade
mark, the Registrar shall send notice in the prescribed manner to the registered proprietor
of the date of expiration and the conditions as to payment of fees and otherwise upon
which arenewal of registration may be obtained, and, if at the expiration of the time pre-
scribed in that behalf, those conditions have not been duly complied with, the Registrar
may remove the trade mark from the register, subject to such conditions, if any, as to its
restoration to the register as may be prescribed.
(4) Where a trade mark has been removed from the register for non-payment of the
fee for renewal, it shall, nevertheless, for the purpose of any application for the registra-
tion of atrade mark during one year next after the date of the removal, be deemed to be a
trade mark that is already on the register:
Provided that the foregoing provisions of this subsection shall not have effect
where the court is satisfied either-
(a) that there has been no bona fide trade use of the trade mark that has been re-
moved during the two years immediately preceding its removal; or
(b) that no deception or confusion would be likely to arise from the use of the
trade mark that is the subject of the application for registration by reason of
any previous use of the trade mark that has been removed.
24. Separate registration ofpart oftrade mark
(I) Where the proprietor of a trade mark claims to be entitled to the exclusive use of
any part thereof separately, he may apply to register the whole and any such part as sepa-
rate trade marks.
(2) Each such separate trade mark must satisfy all the conditions of an independent
trade mark and shall, subject to section 36 (2) of this Act, have all the incidents of an in-
dependent trade mark.
(3) Where a trade mark and any part or parts thereof are, by virtue of subsection (I)
above, registered as separate trade marks in the name of the same proprietor, they shall be
[Issue I] T13-12
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
deemed to be, and shall be registered as, associated trade marks; and section 28 of this
Act shall apply to them accordingly.
25. Registration ofresembling trade marks as a series
(I) Where a person, claiming to be the proprietor of several trade marks in respect of
the same goods or description of goods, which, while resembling each other in the mate-
rial particulars thereof, yet differ inrespect of-
(a) statements of the goods in relation to which they are respectively used or pro-
posed to be used; or
(b) statements of number, price, quality or names of places; or
(c) other matter of a non-distinctive character which does not substantially affect
the identity of the trade mark; or
(d) colour,
seeks to register those trade marks, they may be registered as a series in one registration.
(2) All trade marks that are by virtue of the foregoing subsection registered as a se-
ries in one registration shall be deemed to be, and shall be registered as, associated trade
marks; and section 28 of this Act shall apply to them accordingly.
Assignment and transmission
26. Assignability oftrade marks
(I) Notwithstanding any rule of law or equity to the contrary, a registered trade mark
shall, after the commencement of this Act, be assignable and transmissible either in con-
nection with the goodwill of a business or not.
(2) A registered trade mark shall after the commencement of this Act be assignable
and transmissible in respect either of all the goods in respect of which it is registered, or
was registered, as the case may be, or of some (but not all) of those goods.
(3) Subsections (I) and (2) of this section shall apply in regard to an unregistered
trade mark used in relation to any goods, as they apply in regard to a registered trade
mark registered in respect of any goods, if-
(a) at the time of the transmission of the unregistered trade mark it is used in the
same business as a registered trade mark; and
(b) it is assigned or transmitted at the same time and to the same person as that
registered trade mark; and
(c) it is so assigned or transmitted inrespect of goods all of which are goods-
(i) in relation to which the unregistered trade mark is used in that busi-
ness; and
(ii) inrespect of which the registered trade mark isassigned or transmitted.
(4) Where, after the commencement of this Act, a trade mark is assigned in respect of
any goods and at the time of the assignment the trade mark is used in a business in those
goods, then, if the assignment is made otherwise than in connection with the goodwill of
TI3 -13 [IssueI)
CAP. Tl3
Trade Marks Act
that business, the assignee shall not acquire any rights under the assignment until the
following requirements have been satisfied, that is to say the assignee-
(a) must within six months from the date of the assignment or within such ex-
tended period, if any, as the Registrar may allow, apply to the Registrar for di-
rections with respect to the advertisement of the assignment; and
(b) must advertise the assignment in such form and manner and within such period
as the Registrar may direct.
(5) Where the Registrar gives directions under subsection (4) of this section for the
advertisement of an assignment, he shall also cause notice of the assignment to be pub-
lished in the Journal.
27. Power ofRegistrar to require, or dissolve, association oftrade marks
(I) Where a trade mark that is registered, or is the subject of an application for regis-
tration, in respect of any goods is identical with another trade mark that is registered, or is
the subject of an application for registration, in the name of the same proprietor in respect
of the same goods or description of goods, or so nearly resembles it as to be likely to de-
ceive or cause confusion if used by aperson other than the proprietor, the Register may at
any time require that the trade marks shall be entered on the register as associated trade
marks.
(2) On application made in the prescribed manner by the registered proprietor of two
or more trade marks registered as associated trade marks, the Registrar may dissolve the
association as respects any of them if he is satisfied that there would be no likelihood of
deception or confusion being caused if that trade mark were used by another person in
relation to any of the goods in respect of which it is registered, and may amend the regis-
ter accordingly.
(3) Any decision of the Registrar under this section shall be subject to appeal to the
court.
28. Effect ofassociation oftrade marks
Trade marks that are registered as, or are deemed by virtue of this Act to be, associ-
ated trade marks, shall be assignable and transmissible only as a whole, and not sepa-
rately, but shall for all other purposes be deemed to have been registered as separate trade
marks.
29. Registered proprietor's power to assign
Subject to the provisions of this Act, the person for the time being entered in the reg-
ister as proprietor of a trade mark shall, subject to any rights appearing from the register
to be vested in any other person, have power to assign the trade mark, and to give effec-
tual receipts for any consideration for an assignment thereof.
30. Registration ofassignments, etc.
(I) Where a person becomes entitled by assignment or transmission to a registered
trade mark, he shall make application to the Registrar to register his title, and the Regis-
trar shall, on receipt of the application and on proof of title to his satisfaction, register
him as the proprietor of the trade mark in respect of the goods in respect of which the
[Issue 1) T13 - 14
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
assignment or transmission has effect, and shall cause particulars of the assignment or
transmission to be entered on the register.
(2) Any decision of the Registrar under this section shall be subject to appeal to the
court.
(3) Except for the purposes of an appeal under this section or of an application under
section 38 of this Act, a document or instrument in respect of which no entry has been
made in the register in accordance with the provisions of subsection (I) of this section,
shall not be admitted in evidence in any court in proof of the title to a registered trade
mark, unless the court otherwise directs.
Use and non-use
31. Removal from register on ground of non-use
(I) Subject to this and the next following section, a registered trade mark may be
taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on
an application made by any person concerned to the court or, at the option of the appli-
cant and subject to section 56 of this Act, to the Registrar, on either of the grounds set out
in subsection (2) of this section.
(2) The said grounds are-
(a) that the trade mark was registered without any bona fide intention on the part
of the applicant for registration that itshould be used in relation to those goods
by him, and that there has in fact been no bona fide use of the trade mark in
relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being up to the
date one month before the date of the application; or
(b) that up to the date one month before the date of the application a continuous
period of five years or longer elapsed during which the trade mark was a reg-
istered trade mark and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in re-
lation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being.
(3) The tribunal may refuse an application made under this section on either of the
said grounds if it is shown that before the relevant date or during the relevant period, as
the case may be, there has been bona fide use of the trade mark, by any proprietor for the
time being thereof, in relation to goods of the same description as the goods to which the
application relates, being goods inrespect of which the trade mark is registered:
Provided that where on any such application it is shown as aforesaid, the tribunal
shall not refuse the application-
(a) if the applicant has been permitted under section 13(2) of this Act to register
an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of the goods in ques-
tion; or
(b) if the tribunal is of opinion that the applicant might properly be permitted to
register such atrade mark.
(4) An applicant shall not be entitled to rely for the purposes of subsection (2) (b) of
this section, on any non-use of a trade mark that is shown to have been due to special
circumstances in the trade and not to any intention not to use or to abandon the trade
mark in relation to the goods to which the application relates.
TI3 - 15 [Issue I)
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
32. Defensive registration of well-known invented words
(I) Where a trade mark consisting of an invented word or invented words has, as re-
spects any goods in respect of which it is registered and in relation to which it has been
used (in this subsection referred to as "the familiar goods"), become so well known that
its use in relation to other goods would be likely to be taken as indicating a connection in
the course of trade between those goods and a person entitled to use the trade mark in
relation to the familiar goods, the trade mark may, on the application in the prescribed
manner of the proprietor registered in respect of the familiar goods, be registered in his
name in respect of those other goods, as a defensive trade mark, notwithstanding that the
proprietor registered in respect of the familiar goods does not use or propose to use the
trade mark in relation to those other goods, and notwithstanding anything in section 31 of
this Act; and while so registered, the trade mark shall not be liable to be taken off the
register in respect of those goods under section 31 of this Act.
(2) The registered proprietor of atrade mark-
(a) may apply for its registration in respect of any goods as adefensive trade mark
notwithstanding that it is already registered in his name in respect of those
goods otherwise than as adefensive trade mark; or
(b) may apply for its registration in respect of any goods otherwise than as a de-
fensive trade mark notwithstanding that it is already registered in his name in
respect of those goods as adefensive trade mark,
in place, in either case, of the existing registration.
(3) A trade mark registered as a defensive trade mark and that trade mark as other-
wise registered in the name of the same proprietor, shall, notwithstanding that the respec-
tive registrations are in respect of different goods, be deemed to be, and shall be regis-
tered as, associated trade marks, and section 28 of this Act shall apply to them accord-
ingly.
(4) On application by any person concerned to the court or, at the option of the appli-
cant and subject to section 56 of this Act, to the Registrar, the registration of a trade mark
as adefensive trade mark-
(a) may be cancelled on the ground that the requirements of subsection (I) of this
section are no longer satisfied in respect of any goods in respect of which the
trade mark is registered in the name of the same proprietor otherwise than as a
defensive trade mark; or
(b) may be cancelled as respects any goods in respect of which it is registered as a
defensive trade mark on the ground that there is no longer any likelihood that
the use of the trade mark in relation to those goods would be taken as giving
the indication mentioned in the said subsection (I).
(5) The Registrar may at any time cancel the registration as a defensive trade mark of
a trade mark of which there is no longer any registration in the name of the same pro-
prietor otherwise than as adefensive trade mark.
(6) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this section, the provisions of this Act
shall apply in respect of the registration of trade marks as defensive trade marks and of
trade marks so registered as they apply in other cases.
[Issue I] TI3 - 16
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
33. Registered users
(I) Subject to the provisions of this and the next following section, a person other
than the proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as a registered user thereof in re-
spect of all or any of the goods in respect of which it is registered (otherwise than as a
defensive trade mark) and either with or without conditions or restrictions.
(2) The use of atrade mark by aregistered user thereof in relation to goods-
(a) with which he isconnected in the course of trade; and
(b) in respect of which for the time being the trade mark remains registered and he
isregistered as aregistered user,
is in this Act referred to as "the permitted use" of that trade mark:
Provided that where the registration of a person as a registered user is subject to
any conditions or restrictions, "the permitted use" in his case does not include any use
which does not comply with those conditions or restrictions.
(3) For the purposes of section 31 of this Act and for any other purpose for which the
use of a trade mark is material under this Act or at common law, the permitted use of a
trade mark shall be deemed-
(a) to be use by the proprietor thereof; and
(b) not to be use by a person other than the proprietor.
(4) Subject to any agreement subsisting between the parties, a registered user of a
trade mark shall be entitled to call upon the proprietor thereof to take proceedings to pre-
vent infringement thereof, and, if the proprietor refuses or neglects to do so within two
months after being so called upon, the registered user may institute proceedings for in-
fringement in his own name as if he were the proprietor, making the proprietor a defen-
dant:
Provided that a proprietor so added as defendant shall not be liable for any costs
unless he enters an appearance and takes part in the proceedings.
(5) Nothing in this section shall confer on a registered user of a trade mark any as-
signable or transmissible right to the use thereof.
34. Provisions supplementary tosection 33
(I) Where it is proposed that a person should be registered as a registered user of a
trade mark, the proprietor and the proposed registered user shall apply in writing to the
Registrar in the prescribed manner and shall furnish him with a statutory declaration,
made by the proprietor, or by some person authorised to act on his behalf, and approved
by the Registrar-
(a) giving particulars of the relationship, existing or proposed, between the pro-
prietor and the proposed registered user, including particulars showing the de-
gree of control by the proprietor over the permitted use which their relation-
ship will confer and whether it is a term of their relationship that the proposed
registered user shall be the sole registered user or that there shall be any other
restriction as to persons for whose registration as registered users application
may be made;
TI3 - 17 [Issue I]
CAP. Tl3
Trade Marks Act
(b) stating the goods in respect of which registration is proposed;
(c) stating any conditions or restrictions proposed with respect to the characteris-
tics of the goods, to the mode or place of permitted use, or to any other matter;
and
(d) stating whether the permitted use is to be for a period or without limit of pe-
riod, and, if for a period, the duration thereof,
and shall also furnish the Registrar with such further documents, information or evidence
as may be required under the regulations or by the Registrar.
(2) When the requirements of the foregoing subsection have been complied with, if
the Registrar, after considering the information furnished to him under that subsection, is
satisfied that in all the circumstances the use of the trade mark in relation to the proposed
goods or any of them by the proposed registered user, subject to any conditions or re-
strictions which the Registrar thinks proper, would not be contrary to the public interest,
the Registrar may register the proposed registered user as a registered user in respect of
the goods as to which he isso satisfied, subject as aforesaid.
(3) The Registrar shall refuse an application under the foregoing provisions of this
section if it appears to him that the grant thereof would tend to facilitate trafficking in a
trade mark.
(4) The Registrar shall, if so required by an applicant, take steps for securing that in-
formation given for the purposes of an application under the foregoing provisions of this
section (other than matter entered in the register) is not disclosed to rivals in trade.
(5) Without prejudice to the provisions of section 38 of this Act, the registration of a
person as aregistered user-
(a) may be varied by the Registrar as regards the goods in respect of which, or any
conditions or restrictions subject to which, it has effect, on the application in
writing in the prescribed manner of the registered proprietor of the trade mark
to which the registration relates;
(b) may be cancelled by the Registrar on the application in writing in the pre-
scribed manner of the registered proprietor or of the registered user or of any
other registered user of the trade mark; or
(c) may be cancelled by the Registrar on the application in writing in the pre-
scribed manner of any person on any of the following grounds, that isto say-
(i) that the registered user has used the trade mark otherwise than by way
of the permitted use, or in such a way as to cause, or to be likely to
cause, deception or confusion;
(ii) that the proprietor or the registered user misrepresented, or failed to
disclose, some fact material to the application for the registration, or
that the circumstances have materially changed since the date of the
registration;
(iii) that the registration ought not to have been effected having regard to
rights vested in the applicant by virtue of acontract in the performance
of which he is interested.
(Issue II TI3 - 18
CAP.Tl3
Trade Marks Act
(6) Provision shall be made by the regulations for the notification of the registration
of a person as a registered user to any other registered user of the trade mark, and for the
notification of an application under the last foregoing subsection to the registered pro-
prietor and each registered user (not being the applicant) of the trade mark, and for giving
to the applicant on such an application, and to all persons to whom such an application is
notified and who intervene in the proceedings in accordance with the regulations, an op-
portunity of being heard.
(7) The Registrar may at any time cancel the registration of a person as a registered
user of a trade mark in respect of any goods in respect of which the trade mark is no
longer registered.
(8) Any decision of the Registrar under the foregoing provisions of this section shall
be subject to appeal to the court.
35. Registration with a view toassignment to company about to be formed, etc.
(1) No application for the registration of a trade mark in respect of any goods shall be
refused, nor shall permission for such registration be withheld, on the ground only that it
appears that the applicant does not use or propose to use the trade mark-
(a) if the tribunal is satisfied that a body corporate is about to be constituted, and
that the applicant intends to assign the trade mark to the body corporate with a
view to the ust:thereof inrelation to those goods by the body corporate; or
(b) if the application is accompanied by an application for the registration of a
person as a registered user of the trade mark, and the tribunal is satisfied that
the proprietor intends itto be used by that person in relation to those goods and
the tribunal is also satisfied that that person will be registered as a registered
user thereof immediately after the registration of the trade mark.
(2) The provisions of section 31 of this Act shall have effect, in relation to a trade
mark registered under the power conferred by the Foregoing subsection, as if for the ref-
erence in subsection (I) (a) of that section to intention on the part of an applicant for
registration that a trade mark should be used by him, there were substituted a reference to
intention on his part that is should be used by the body corporate or registered user con-
cerned.
(3) The tribunal may, as a condition of the exercise of the power conferred by sub-
section (l) of this section, in favour of an applicant who relies on intention to assign to a
body corporate as aforesaid, require him to give security for the costs of any proceedings
before the court relative to any opposition or appeal, and indefault of such security being
duly given, may treat the application as abandoned.
(4) Where a trade mark is registered in respect of any goods under the power con-
ferred by subsection (I) of this section, in the name of an applicant who relies on inten-
tion to assign to a body corporate as aforesaid, then, unless within six months, or within
such further period not exceeding two months as the Registrar may on application being
made to him in the prescribed manner allow, the body corporate has been registered as
the proprietor of the trade mark in respect of those goods, the registration shall cease to
have effect in respect thereof at the expiration of that period, and the Registrar shall
amend the register accordingly.
TI3 - 19 [Issue IJ
CAP. TI3
Trade Marks Act
36. Use ofone trade mark equivalent to use ofanother in certain cases
(l) Where under the provisions of this Act, use of a registered trade mark is required
to be proved for any purpose, the tribunal may, if and so far as the tribunal thinks right,
accept use of an associated registered trade mark, or of the trade mark with additions or
alterations not substantially affecting its identity, as an equivalent for the use required to
be proved.
(2) The use of the whole of a registered trade mark shall, for the purposes of this Act,
be deemed to be also ause of any registered trade mark, being a part thereof, registered in
the name of the same proprietor by virtue of section 24 of this Act.
37. Useof trade mark in relation to goods for export
The application in Nigeria of a trade mark to goods to be exported from Nigeria, and
any other act done in Nigeria in relation to goods to be so exported which, if done in re-
lation to goods to be sold or otherwise traded in within Nigeria, would constitute use of a
trade mark therein, shall be taken to constitute use of the trade mark in relation to those
goods for any purpose for which such use is material under this Act or at common law.
Rectification and correction of register
38. General power to rectify register
(I) Any person concerned who alleges-
(a) that any entry has not been inserted in, or has been omitted from, the register;
or
(b) that any entry has been made in the register without sufficient cause; or
(c) that any entry wrongly remains on the register; or
(d) that any error or defect exists in any entry on the register,
may apply in the prescribed manner to the court or, at the option of the applicant and
subject to section 56 of this Act, to the Registrar, and the tribunal may make such order
for making, expunging or varying the entry as the tribunal thinks tit.
(2) The tribunal may, in any proceedings under this section, decide any question that
it may be necessary or expedient to decide in connection with the rectification of the reg-
ister.
(3) In case of fraud in the registration, assignment or transmission of a registered
trade mark, the Registrar may himself apply to the court under the provisions of this sec-
tion.
(4) Any order of the court rectifying the register shall direct that notice of the rectifi-
cation shall be served in the prescribed manner on the Registrar, and the Registrar shall
on receipt of the notice rectify the register accordingly.
(5) The power to rectify the register conferred by this section shall include power to
remove aregistration in Part A of the register to Part B.
[Issue I] TI3 - 20
CAP. Tl3
Trade Marks Act
39. Power to strike out or vary registration for breach ofcondition
(1) Any person concerned may apply to the court or, at the option of the applicant
and subject to section 56 of this Act, to the Registrar, for an order under this section on
the ground of any contravention of, or failure to observe, a condition entered on the reg-
ister in relation to atrade mark.
(2) The Registrar may apply to the court for an order under this section on the ground
aforesaid.
(3) On an application under the foregoing provisions of this section, the tribunal may
make on the ground aforesaid such order as the tribunal thinks tit for striking out or
varying the registration of the trade mark inquestion.
40. Correction ofregister
(I) The Registrar may, on request made in the prescribed manner by the registered
proprietor-
(a) correct any error in the name or address of the registered proprietor of a trade
mark;
(b) enter any change in the name or address of the person who isregistered as pro-
prietor of a trade mark;
(c) cancel the entry of atrade mark on the register;
(d) strike out any goods or classes of goods from those in respect of which a trade
mark is registered; or
(e) enter a disclaimer or memorandum relating to a trade mark which does not in
any way extend the rights given by the existing registration of the trade mark.
(2) The Registrar may, on request made in the prescribed manner by a registered user
of a trade mark, correct any error, or enter any change, in the name or address of the reg-
istered user.
(3) Any decision of the Registrar under this section shall be subject to appeal to the
court.
41. Alteration ofregistered trade mark
(I) The registered proprietor of a trade mark may apply in the prescribed manner to
the Registrar for leave to add to or alter the trade mark in any manner not substantially
affecting the identity thereof, and the Registrar may refuse leave or may grant it on such
terms and subject to such limitations as he may think fit.
(2) The Registrar may cause an application under this section to be advertised in the
Journal in any case where it appears to him that it is expedient so to do, and where he
does so, if within the prescribed time from the date of the advertisement any person gives
notice to the Registrar in the prescribed manner of opposition to the application, the
Registrar shall, after hearing the parties ifso required, decide the matter.
(3) Any decision of the Registrar under this section shall be subject to appeal to the
court.
T13-21 [Issue I]
CAP. Tl3
Trade Marks Act
(4) Where leave as aforesaid is granted, the trade mark as altered shall be advertised
in the Journal, unless it has already been advertised, in the form to which it has been al-
tered, inan advertisement under subsection (2) of this section.
42. Adaptation of register to revised classification ofgoods
(I) The Minister may make such regulations and prescribe such forms as he thinks
expedient, for empowering the Registrar to amend the register, whether by making or
striking out or varying entries therein, so far as may be requisite for the purpose of
adapting the designation therein of the goods or classes of goods in respect of which trade
marks are registered to any amended or substituted classification that may be prescribed.
(2) The Registrar shall not, in exercise of any power conferred on him for the purpose
aforesaid, make any amendment of the register that would have the effect of adding any
goods or classes of goods to those in respect of which a trade mark is registered (whether
in one or more classes) immediately before the amendment is to be made, or of antedat-
ing the registration of atrade mark in respect of any goods:
Provided that this subsection shall not have effect in relation to goods as to which
the Registrar is satisfied that compliance with this subsection in relation thereto would
involve undue complexity and that the addition or antedating, as the case may be, would
not affect any substantial quantity of goods and would not substantially prejudice the
rights of any person.
(3) A proposal for the amendment of the register for the purpose aforesaid-
(a) shall be notified to the registered proprietor of the trade mark affected;
(b) shall be subject to appeal by the registered proprietor to the court;
(c) shall be advertised inthe Journal with any modifications; and
(d) may be opposed before the Registrar by any person concerned on the ground
that the proposed amendment contravenes the provisions of subsection (2) of
this section.
(4) The decision of the Registrar on any opposition under subsection (3) (d) of this
section shall be subject to appeal to the court.
(5) Regulations under this section shall not have effect until published in the Federal
Gazette.
Certification trade marks
43. Certification trade marks
(I) A mark adapted in relation to any goods to distinguish in the course of trade
goods certified by any person in respect of origin, material, method of manufacture,
quality, accuracy or other characteristic, from goods not so certified, shall be registrable
as a certification trade mark in Part A of the register in respect of those goods in the
name, as proprietor thereof, of that person:
Provided that a mark shall not be so registrable in the name of a person who carries
on a trade in goods of the kind certified.
[Issue I] T13 - 22
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
(2) In determining whether a mark is adapted to distinguish as aforesaid, the tribunal
may have regard to the extent to which-
(a) the mark is inherently adapted to distinguish as aforesaid in relation to the
goods inquestion; and
(b) by reason of the use of the mark or of any other circumstances, the mark is in
fact adapted to distinguish as aforesaid in relation to the goods inquestion.
(3) Subject to the provisions of subsections (5) and (6) of this section, and of sec-
tions 7 and 8 of this Act, the registration of a person as proprietor of a certification trade
mark in respect of any goods shall, if valid, give to that person the exclusive right to the
use of the trade mark in relation to those goods.
(4) Without prejudice to the generality of the right to the use of a certification trade
mark given by such registration as aforesaid, that right shall be taken to be infringed by
any person who, not being the proprietor of the trade mark or a person authorised by him
under the rules in that behalf using it in accordance therewith, uses a mark identical with
itor so nearly resembling itas to be likely to deceive or cause confusion, in the course of
trade, in relation to any goods in respect of which it is registered, and in such manner as
to render the use of the mark likely to be taken either-
(a) as being used as a trade mark; or
(b) in a case in which the use is use upon the goods or in physical relation thereto
or in an advertising circular or other advertisement issued to the public, as im-
porting a reference to some person having the right either as proprietor or by
his authorisation under the relevant rules to use the trade mark or to goods cer-
tified by the proprietor.
(5) The right to the use of a certification trade mark given by such registration as
aforesaid shall be subject to any conditions or limitations entered on the register, and the
use of any such mark as aforesaid in any circumstances to which, having regard to any
such limitations, the registration does not extend, shall not constitute an infringement of
that right.
(6) Where acertification trade mark is one of two or more registered trade marks that
are identical or nearly resemble each other, the use of any of those trade marks in exer-
cise of the right to the use of that trade mark given by registration shall not constitute an
infringement of the right to the use of any other of those trade marks so given.
(7) There shall be deposited at the office of the Registrar in respect of every trade
mark registered under this section, rules approved by the Minister for governing the use
thereof, which shall include provisions as to the cases in which the proprietor is to certify
goods and to authorise the use of the trade mark, and may contain any other provisions
that the Minister may require or permit to be inserted therein (including provisions con-
ferring a right of appeal to the Registrar against any refusal of the proprietor to certify
goods or to authorise the use of the trade mark in accordance with the rules).
(8) Rules deposited under subsection (7) of this section, shall be open to inspection in
like manner as the register.
(9) A certification trade mark shall not be assignable or transmissible otherwise than
with the consent of the Minister.
T13 - 23 [Issue II
CAP. T13
. Trade Marks Act
(10) The provisions of the First Schedule of this Act shall have effect with respect to
the registration of a mark under this section and to marks so registered.
[FirstSchedule.]
International arrangements
44. International arrangements
(1) Any person who has applied for protection for any trade mark in a Convention
country, or his legal representative or assignee, shall be entitled to registration of his trade
mark under this Act in priority to other applicants; and the registration shall have the
same date as the date of the application in the Convention country:
Provided that-
(a) this subsection shall not apply unless application for registration is made
within six months from the application for protection in the Convention coun-
try; and
(b) nothing in this section shall entitle the proprietor of the trade mark to recover
damages for infringements happening prior to the actual date on which his
trade mark isregistered in Nigeria.
(2) The registration of a trade mark shall not be invalidated by reason only of the use
of the trade mark in Nigeria during the period specified in this section as that within
which the application may be made.
(3) The application for the registration of a trade mark by virtue of this section must
be made in the same manner as an ordinary application for the registration of a trade
mark under this Act.
(4) Where a person has applied for protection for any trade mark by an application
which-
(a) in accordance with the terms of a treaty subsisting between any two or more
Convention countries, is equivalent to an application duly made in anyone of
those Convention countries; or
(b) in accordance with the law of any Convention country, is equivalent to an ap-
plication duly made in that Convention country,
he shall be deemed for the purposes of this section to have applied in that Convention
country.
(5) In this Act, "Convention country" means a country in the case of which there is
for the time being in force a declaration made by the President, with a view to the fulfil-
ment of a treaty, convention, arrangement or engagement, declaring that that country is a
Convention country:
Provided that a declaration may be made as aforesaid for the purposes either of all
or of some (but not all) of the provisions of this Act, and a country in the case of which a
declaration made for the purposes of some (but not all) of the provisions of this Act is in
force shall be deemed to be a Convention country for the purposes of those provisions
only.
[Issue I] Tl3 - 24
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
(6) A declaration made under this section shall not have effect until published in the
Federal Gazette.
Regulations
45. Power to make regulations
(I) The Minister may make regulations-
(a) for regulating the practice under this Act, including the service of documents;
(b) for classifying goods for the purposes of registration of trade marks;
(e) for making or requiring duplicates of trade marks and other documents;
(d) for securing and regulating the publishing and selling or distributing, in such
manner as the Minister thinks fit, of copies of trade marks and other docu-
ments;
(e) for prescribing the fees to be paid in respect of applications, registrations and
other matters under this Act;
(j) for prescribing anything required or authorised by this Act to be prescribed by
regulations;
(g) for extending the time limited by this Act for the performance of any act,
whether generally or in particular cases and whether at the discretion of the
Registrar or otherwise;
(h) for imposing restrictions as regards the registration under this Act of the arms,
flags, emblems, titles or other distinctive marks of any country or international
organisation;
(i) generally, for regulating the business of the office of the Registrar and all
things by this Act placed under the direction or control of the Registrar or the
Minister.
(2) Regulations under this section shall not have effect until published in the Federal
Gazette.
Powers and duties of Registrar
46. Duty ofRegistrar, ifrequired, to hear certain persons
Where any discretionary or other power is given 10 the Registrar by this Act or the
regulations, he shall not exercise that power adversely to an applicant for registration or
the registered proprietor of a trade mark without (if duly required so to do within the pre-
scribed time) giving to the applicant or registered proprietor an opportunity of being
heard.
47. Power ofRegistrar to award costs
In all proceedings before the Registrar under this Act, the Registrar shall have power
to award to any party such costs as he may consider reasonable, and to direct how and by
what parties they are to be paid, and any such order may, by leave of the court or ajudge
thereof, be enforced in the same manner as ajudgment or order of the court to the same
effect.
TI3 - 25 [Issue I]
Tn
CAP.
Trade Marks Act
48. Annual reports of Registrar
The Registrar shall, before IJuly in every year, send to the Minister a report on the
execution by or under the Registrar of this Act, and on receipt of any such report, the
Minister shall lay acopy thereof before each House of the National Assembly.
Legal proceedings and appeals
49. Registration to beprima facie evidence ofvalidity
In all legal proceedings relating to a registered trade mark (including applications un-
der section 38 of this Act) the fact that a person is registered as proprietor of the trade
mark shall be prima facie evidence of the validity of the original registration of the trade
mark and of all subsequent assignments and transmissions thereof.
50. Certificate ofvalidity
In all legal proceedings in which the validity of the registration of a registered trade
mark comes into question and isdecided in favour of the proprietor of the trade mark, the
court may certify to that effect; and if it so certifies, then, in any subsequent legal pro-
ceedings in which the validity of the registration comes into question, the proprietor of
the trade mark on obtaining a final order orjudgment in his favour shall be entitled to his
costs unless in the subsequent proceedings the court certifies that he ought not to have
them.
51. Costs of Registrar, etc.
In all proceedings before the court under this Act the costs of the Registrar shall be in
the discretion of the court, but the Registrar shall not be ordered to pay the costs of any
other of the parties.
52. Trade usage, etc., to beconsidered
In any action or proceeding relating to a trade mark or trade name, the tribunal shall
admit evidence of the usages of the trade concerned and of any relevant trade mark or
trade name or get-up legitimately used by other persons.
53. Registrar's appearance in proceedings involving rectification
(I) In any legal proceedings in which the relief sought includes alteration or rectifi-
cation of the register, the Registrar shall have the right to appear and be heard, and shall
appear ifso directed by the Court.
(2) Unless otherwise directed by the court, the Registrar, instead of appearing and
being heard, may submit to the court a statement in writing signed by him, giving par-
ticulars of the proceedings before him in relation to the matter in issue or of the grounds
of any decision given by him affecting itor of the practice of the office of the Registrar in
like cases or of such other matters relevant to the issues, and within his knowledge as
Registrar, as he thinks tit, and the statement shall be deemed to form part of the evidence
in the proceedings.
(Issue I] TI3 - 26
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
54. Court's power to review Registrar's decisions
The court, in dealing with any question of the rectification of the register (including
all applications under the provisions of section 38 of this Act), shall have power to review
any decision of the Registrar relating to the entry in question or the correction sought to
be made.
55. Powers ofcourt on appeal
In any appeal from a decision of the Registrar to the court under this Act, the court
shall have and exercise the same discretionary powers as under this Act are conferred
upon the Registrar.
56. Procedure in cases ofoption to apply to court or Registrar
Where, under any of the foregoing provisions of this Act, an applicant has an option
to make an application either to the court or to the Registrar-
(a) if an action concerning the trade mark in question is pending, the application
must be made to the court;
(b) if in any other case the application is made to the Registrar, he may, at any
stage of the proceedings, refer the application to the court, or he may, after
hearing the parties, determine the question between them, subject to appeal to
the court.
Evidence
57. Method ofgiving evidence, etc.
(I) In any proceedings under this Act before the Registrar, the evidence shall be
given by statutory declaration except in so far as the Registrar otherwise directs; but in
any case where the Registrar thinks it right to do so, he may take evidence viva voce in-
stead of or in addition to evidence by statutory declaration.
(2) Where, in any such proceedings, any evidence has been given by means of a
statutory declaration, that evidence may, in the case of an appeal, be given before the
court by means of that statutory declaration instead of by affidavit; but any evidence
given by statutory declaration before the court by virtue of this subsection shall have all
the incidents and consequences of evidence given by affidavit.
(3) The Chief Judge of the Federal High Court may, with respect to the taking in any
proceedings before the Registrar under this Act of any part of the evidence viva voce,
make rules-
(a) as to the examination of the parties, and of witnesses, on oath or affirmation;
and
(b) as to the procedure of securing the attendance of witnesses and the production
of documents.
(4) Rules made under subsection (3) of this section, shall not have effect until pub-
lished in the Federal Gazette.
Tl3 - 27 [Issue I]
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
58. Evidence ofentries in register
(1) A printed or written copy of any entry in the register, purporting to be certified by
the Registrar and sealed with the seal of the Registrar, shall be admitted inevidence in all
courts and in all proceedings without further proof or production of the original.
(2) Any person requiring such a certified copy as aforesaid shall be entitled to obtain
iton payment of the prescribed fee.
59. Evidence ofthings done by Registrar
Acertificate purporting to be under the hand of the Registrar as to any entry, matter or
thing that he isauthorised by this Act or the rules to make or do shall be prima facie evi-
dence of the entry having been made, and of the contents thereof, and of the matter or
thing having been done or not done.
Offences, and restraint of use of Arms of Nigeria, etc.
60. Falsification of register
If any person makes or causes to be made a false entry, in the register, or a writing
falsely purporting to be acopy of an entry in the register, or produces or tenders or causes
to be produced or tendered in evidence any such writing, knowing the entry or writing to
be false, he shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction on indictment to im-
prisonment for aterm not exceeding seven years.
61. Falsely representing trade mark as registered
(I) Any person who makes a representation-
(a) with respect to a mark not being a registered trade mark, to the effect that it is
aregistered trade mark; or
(b) with respect to a part of a registered trade mark not being a part separately
registered as a trade mark, to the effect that it is so registered; or
(c) to the effect that aregistered trade mark is registered in respect of any goods in
respect of which it is not registered; or
(d) to the effect that the registration of a trade mark gives an exclusive right to the
use thereof in any circumstance in which, having regard to limitations entered
on the register, the registration does not give that right,
shall be liable on summary conviction to a tine not exceeding two hundred naira.
(2) For the purposes of this section, the use in Nigeria in relation to a trade mark of
the word "registered", or of any other word referring, whether expressly or by implica-
tion, to registration, shall be taken to import a reference to registration in the register,
except-
(a) where that word is used in physical association with other words delineated in
characters at least as large as those in which that word is delineated and indi-
cating that the reference is to registration as a trade mark under the law of a
country other than Nigeria, being a country under the law of which the regis-
tration referred to is in fact in force; or
[Issue II Tl3 - 28
CAP. Tl3
Trade Marks Act
(b) where that word (being a word other than the word "registered") is of itself
such as to indicate that the reference is to such registration as last aforesaid; or
(c) where that word is used in relation to a mark registered as a trade mark under
the law of a country other than Nigeria and in relation to goods to be exported
to that country.
62. Restraint ofuseofArms ofNigeria or ofa State, etc.
(I) If in connection with any trade, business, calling or profession any person, with-
out the authorisation of the appropriate authority-
(a) uses the Arms of Nigeria or the Arms of a State (or arms so closely resembling
the same as to be calculated to deceive) in any manner calculated to lead to the
belief that he is duly authorised to use the Arms of Nigeria or the Arms of that
State, as the case may be; or
(b) uses any device, emblem or title in any manner calculated to lead to the belief
that he is employed by or supplies goods to the President or the Governor of a
State in his official capacity as such,
he shall be guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding
forty naira.
(2) Nothing in the foregoing subsection shall be construed as affecting the right, if
any, of the proprietor of a trade mark containing any such arms, device, emblem or title
as aforesaid tocontinue to use that trade mark.
(3) In this section, "the appropriate authority"-
(a) in relation to the Arms of Nigeria and to employment by or the supply of
goods to the President, means the President; and
(b) in relation to the Arms of a State and to employment by or the supply of goods
to the Governor of aState, means the Governor of that State.
Miscellaneous and supplemental
63. The Trade Marks Journal
(I) The Registrar shall, from time to time, publish ajournal (in this Act referred to as
"the Journal") to be known as the Trade Marks Journal.
(2) There shall be published in the Journal all matters required by or under this Act to
be so published and all such other matters relating to trade marks as the Registrar thinks
fit.
64. Joint proprietorship oftrade mark
(I) Where the relations between two or more persons interested in a trade mark are
such that no one of them is entitled as between himself and the other or others of them to
use itexcept-
(a) on behalf of both or all of them; Of
(b) in relation to an article with which both or all of them are connected in the
course of trade,
TI3 - 29 [Issue IJ
CAP. TI3
Trade Marks Act
those persons may be registered as joint proprietors of the trade mark, and this Act shall
have effect in relation to any rights to the use of the trade mark vested in those persons as
if those rights had been vested ina single person.
(2) Subject to the foregoing subsection, nothing in this Act shall authorise the regis-
tration of two or more persons who use a trade mark independently, or propose so to use
it, asjoint proprietors thereof.
65. Trusts and equities
(I) There shall not be entered in the register any notice of any trust, whether express,
implied or constructive; and no such notice shall be receivable by the Registrar.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, equities in respect of a trade mark may be
enforced in like manner as in respect of any other personal property.
66. Recognition ofagents
Where by this Act any act has to be done by or to any person in connection with a
trade mark or proposed trade mark or any procedure relating thereto, the act may under
and in accordance with the regulations or in particular cases by special leave of the Min-
ister, be done by or to an agent of that person duly authorised in the prescribed manner.
67. Interpretation
(I) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, the following expressions have
the meanings hereby assigned to them respectively, that is to say-
"assignment" means assignment by act of the parties concerned;
"court" means the Federal High Court;
"Journal" means the Trade Marks Journal published under section 63 of this Act;
"limitations" means any limitations of the exclusive right to the use of a trade mark
given by the registration of a person as proprietor thereof, including limitations of that
right as to manner of use, as to use in relation to goods to be sold or otherwise traded in,
in any place in Nigeria, or as to use in relation to goods to be exported to any market out-
side Nigeria;
"mark" includes adevice, brand, heading, label, ticket, name, signature, word, letter,
numeral, or any combination thereof;
"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for trade marks;
"permitted use" has the meaning assigned by section 33 (2) of this Act;
"person concerned", inrelation to any matter, does not include the Registrar;
"prescribed" means, in relation to proceedings before the court, prescribed by rules
of court, and, in other cases, prescribed by this Act or the Regulations;
"register" means the register of trade marks kept under this Act;
[Issue I) TI3 - 30
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
"registered trade mark" means atrade mark that is actually on the register;
"registered user" means a person who is for the time being registered as such under
section 34 of this Act;
"Registrar" means the Registrar of Trade Marks appointed under section I of this
Act;
"regulations" means regulations made by the Minister under section 42 or 45 of this
Act;
"trade mark" means. except in relation to a certification trade mark, a mark used or
proposed to be used in relation to goods for the purpose of indicating, or so as to indicate,
a connection in the course of trade between the goods and some person having the right
either as proprietor or as registered user to use the mark, whether with or without any
indication of the identity of that person, and means, in relation to a certification trade
mark, a mark registered or deemed to have been registered under section 43 of this Act;
"transmission" means transmission by operation of law, devolution on the personal
representative of adeceased person, and any other mode of transfer not being assignment;
"tribunal" means the Registrar or the court, as the context or circumstances may re-
quire.
(2) References in this Act to the use of a mark shall be construed as references to the
use of printed or other visual representation of the mark, and references therein to the use
of a mark in relation to goods shall be construed as references to the use thereof upon, or
inphysical or other relation to, goods.
68. Transitional provisions, repeal and savings
(I) The transitional provisions set out in the Second Schedule to this Act shall have
effect with respect to the various matters therein mentioned.
[SecondSchedule.]
(2) The enactments mentioned in the Third Schedule to this Act are hereby repealed
to the extent specified in the third column of that Schedule.
(3) Nothing in this Act shall affect any order, requirement or application made, cer-
tificate issued, or notice, decision, determination, direction or approval given, or any
other thing done, under any enactment repealed by this Act; and every such order, re-
quirement, application, certificate, notice, decision, determination, direction, approval or
thing shall, if in force at the commencement of this Act, continue in force and shall, so far
as itcould have been made, issued, given or done under this Act or the regulations, have
effect as if made, issued, given or done under the corresponding provision of this Act or
the regulations.
(4) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (3) of this section, the appoint-
ment as Registrar of Trade Marks of the officer who immediately before the commence-
ment of this Act held that office shall be deemed to have been made by the Federal Civil
Service Commission under this Act.
T13 - 31 [Issue I]
CAP. Tl3
Trade Marks Act
(5) Any proceedings begun under the Trade Marks Act may be continued under this
Act.
[Cap. 199ofthe 1958 Edition.Cap.TI3.]
(6) The provisions of this section shall be without prejudice to the provisions of sec-
tion 6of the Interpretation Act (which relates to the effect of repeals).
69. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Trade Marks Act.
SCHEDULES
FIRST SCHEDULE
[Section43 (10).]
Certification trade marks
1. (I) An application for the registration of a mark under section 43 of this Act must be
made to the Registrar in writing in the prescribed manner by the person proposed to be regis-
tered asthe proprietor thereof.
(2) The provisions of subsections (2) and (4) to (7) of section 18 of this Act shall have
effect in relation to an application under the said section 43 as they have effect in relation to
an application under subsection (I) of the said section 18, except that for references therein to
acceptance of an application, there shall be substituted references to authorisation to proceed
with the application.
(3) In dealing under the said provisions with an application under the said section 43 the
tribunal shall have regard to the like considerations, so far as relevant, as if the application
were an application under section 18 of this Act and to any other considerations (not being
matters within the competence of the Minister under subparagraph (5) below) relevant to ap-
plications under the said section 43, including the desirability of securing that a certification
trade mark shall comprise some indication that itissuch atrade mark.
(4) An applicant for the registration of amark under the said section 43 shall transmit to
the Registrar draft rules for governing the use thereof at such time before the decision of the
Registrar on the application as he may require inorder toenable him toconsider the draft, and
the Registrar shall report thereon tothe Minister.
(5) When authorisation toproceed with an application has been given, the Minister shall
consider the application with regard tothe following matters, that isto say-
(a) whether the applicant is competent to certify the goods in respect of which the
mark istobe registered;
(b) whether the draft rules are satisfactory; and
(c) whether in all the circumstances the registration applied for would be to the
public advantage,
and mayeither-
(i) direct that the application shall notbe accepted; or
(ii) direct the Registrar to accept the application, and approve the rules, either with-
out modification and unconditionally or subject to any condition or limitations,
[IssueI] T13 - 32
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
or to any amendments or modifications of the application or of the rules, which
the Minister thinks requisite having regard to any of the matters aforesaid,
but, except in the case of a direction for acceptance and approval without modification and
unconditionally, the Minister shall not decide the matter without giving to the applicant on
opportunity of being heard:
Provided that the Minister may, at the request of the applicant made with the concur-
rence of the Registrar, consider the application with regard to any of the matters aforesaid
before authorisation to proceed with the application has been given, so however that the Min-
ister shall be at liberty to reconsider any matter on which he has given a decision under this
proviso if any amendment or modification is thereafter made in the application or in the draft
regulations.
2. (I) When an application has been accepted, the Registrar shall, as soon as may be after
such acceptance, cause the application as accepted to he advertised in the Journal, and the
provisions of sections 20 and 21 of this Act shall have effect in relation to the registration of
the mark as if the application had been an application under section 18of this Act:
Provided that, in deciding under the said provisions, the tribunal shall have regard only
to the considerations referred to in paragraph I (3)of this Schedule, and a decision under the
said provisions in favour of the applicant shall be conditional on the determination in his fa-
vour by the Minister under sub-paragraph (2) of this paragraph of any opposition relating to
any of the matters referred to in paragraph I (5)of this Schedule.
(2) When notice of opposition is given relating to any of the matters referred to in para-
graph I (5) of this Schedule, the Minister shall, after hearing the parties, if so required, and
considering any evidence, decide whether, and subject to what conditions or limitations, or
amendments or modifications of the application or of the rules, if any, registration is, having
regard to those matters, to be permitted.
3. (I) The rules deposited in respect of a certification trade mark may, on the application of
the registered proprietor, be altered by the Registrar, with the consent of the Minister.
(2) The Minister may cause an application for his consent to be advertised in any case
where it appears to him that it is expedient so to do, and, where the Minister causes an appli-
cation to be advertised, if within the prescribed time from the date of the advertisement any
person gives notice to the Minister of opposition to the application, the Minister shall not de-
cide the matter without giving the parties an opportunity of being heard.
4. (I) The Minister may, on the application in the prescribed manner of any person con-
cerned, or on the application of the Registrar, make such order as he thinks fit for striking out
or varying any entry in the register relating to a certification trade mark, or for varying the
deposited rules, on the ground-
(a) that the proprietor is no longer competent, in the case of any of the goods in
respect of which the trade mark is registered, to certify those goods;
(b) that the proprietor has failed to observe a provision of the deposited rules to be
observed on his part;
(c) that it is no longer to the public advantage that the trade mark should he regis-
tered; or
(d) that it is requisite for the public advantage that, if the trade mark remains reg-
istered, the rules should be varied,
and neither the court nor the Registrar shall have any jurisdiction to make an order under sec-
tion 38 of this Act on any of those grounds.
Tn - 33 [Issue IJ
CAP. T13
Trade Marks Act
(2) The Registrar shall rectify the register and the deposited rules insuch matter as may
be requisite forgiving effect toanorder made under the foregoing sub-paragraph.
5. Notwithstanding anything in section 47 of this Act, the Registrar shall not have anyjuris-
diction to award costs to or against any party on an application to him against arefusal of the
proprietor of a certification trade mark to certify goods or to authorise the use of the trade
mark.
6. The following provisions of thisAct shall nothave effect inrelation toacertification trade
mark, that is to say, sections 5 and 9, sections 18to 21 (except as expressly applied by this
Schedule), section 26 (4), sections 31 to 35, and any provisions the operation of which is lim-
ited bythe terms thereof toregistration inPart Bofthe register.
SECOND SCHEDULE
[Section68(I).]
Transitional provisions
Validity of registrations under previous enactments
1. (I) Subject tothe provisions of this paragraph and of section 14of this Act, the validity of
the original entry of any trade mark on the register of trade marks existing at the commence-
ment of the Trade Marks Act shall be determined in accordance with the enactments in force
at the date of that entry, and any such trade mark shall retain its original date, but forallother
purposes shall bedeemed to have been registered under theTrade Marks Act.
(2) No trade mark which ison the register at the commencement of this Act and which
under this Act isaregistrable trade mark shall beremoved from the register on theground that
itwas not registrable under theenactments inforce atthe date of itsregistration.
(3) Nothing in this Act shall be taken to have invalidated the original registration of a
trade mark that immediately before the commencement of this Act was validly on the register.
(4) Nothing in section 43 of the Trade Marks Act or in this Act shall be construed as
having subjected any person to any liability in respect of any act or thing done before the
commencement of that Act or this Act respectively to which he would not have been subject
under theenactments then inforce.
Previous useof trade mark byperson becoming registered user onapplication
made within oneyear ofcommencement ofAct
2. Where a person is registered as a registered user of a trade mark on an application made
within one year from the commencement of this Act, section 33(3) of this Act shall have ef-
fect in relation to any previous use (whether before or after the commencement of this Act) of
the trade mark by that person, being use in relation tothe goods in respect of which he is reg-
istered and, where he is registered subject to conditions or restrictions, being use such as to
comply substantially therewith, as ifthat previous use had been permitted use.
Previous useof trade mark inrelation togoodsfor export
3. Section 37of this Act shall be deemed to have had effect in relation to an act done before
the commencement of this Act as it has effect in relation to an act done after the commence-
ment of this Act, without prejudice, however, to any determination of a competent tribunal
which was made before the commencement of this Act, or to the determination of any appeal
from adetermination so made.
[IssueI) TI3 - 34
CAP. Tn
Trade Marks Act
Trade marks registered under section 62of theformer Trade Marks Act (Cap. /99)
deemed tobe registered under section 43 ofthisAct
4. Section 43 of this Act shall have effect, in relation to a trade mark that immediately before
the commencement of this Act was on the register by virtue of section 62 of the Trade Mark
Act as if the said section 43 had been in force at the date of the registration of the trade mark
and it had been registered under that section, subject however to the following modifications,
that is to say-
(a) the proviso to subsection (I) of the said section 43 shall not apply;
(b) in acase in which rules for governing the use of the trade mark are deposited at
the office of the Registrar at the commencement of this Act, those rules shall be
deemed to have been deposited under the said section 43;
(c) in a case in which no such rules are deposited at the commencement of this
Act, the proprietor shall be at liberty, or may be required by the Minister as a
condition of the continuance of the registration, to deposit at any time thereaf-
ter such rules as the Minister may permit or require; and
(d) in a case in which no such rules are for the time being deposited, the said sec-
tion 43 shall have effect as if references therein, and in the First Schedule to
this Act, to the rules had been omitted.
THIRD SCHEDULE
[Section 68 (2).]
Repeals
Chapterornumber Shorttitle Extent of repeal
Cap. 199 The Trade Marks Act The whole Act
1958 Vol. X, Page 2516 The Trade Marks Regulations The whole of the Regulations
L.N. 122of 1961 The Trade Marks (Fees) Regula- The whole ofthe Regulations
tions 1961
L.N.1120fI964 The Adaptation of Laws (Miscel- In the First Schedule, the entry
laneous Provisions) Order 1964 relating to the Trade Marks Act
(Cap. 199)
CHAPTER T13
TRADE MARKS ACT
SUBSIDIARY LEGISLATION
No Subsidiary Legislation
Tl3 - 35 [Issue I]
